programs.md, before:

---
title: "Initiatives"
description:
   "Active FPA Programs and Initiatives"
layout: default
shortcutType: regular
shortcuts:
    - text: Travel grants for FreeCAD community members
      button: Travel grants
      href: /programs/fosdem-travel-grants
    - text: Grants help accelerate FreeCAD development
      button: Development fund
      # href: /_programs/FPADF-Announcements.html
      href: /programs/fpadf-announcement
    - text: A program for people willing to learn and teach FreeCAD
      button: Learning initiative
      href: /programs/learning-initiative
    - text: The FPA seeks authors to write original content for the FreeCAD Blog
      button: Blog content
      href: /programs/blog-content
---

# {{page.title}}

{{page.description}}

{% include shortcuts.html %}

{% comment %} only render if not jekyll {% endcomment %}
{% if false %}

Grants help accelerate FreeCAD development (Development fund)[/_programs/FPADF_Announcement.md]
The FPA will pay authors to write original content for the FreeCAD Blog (Blog author)[/_programs/blog_content.md]

{% endif %}

Commit message:

Added job offers page with 1 offer (manual update)

programs.md, after:

---
title: "Initiatives"
description:
   "Active FPA Programs and Initiatives"
layout: default
shortcutType: regular
shortcuts:
    - text: Travel grants for FreeCAD community members
      button: Travel grants
      href: /programs/fosdem-travel-grants
    - text: Grants help accelerate FreeCAD development
      button: Development fund
      # href: /_programs/FPADF-Announcements.html
      href: /programs/fpadf-announcement
    - text: A program for people willing to learn and teach FreeCAD
      button: Learning initiative
      href: /programs/learning-initiative
    - text: The FPA seeks authors to write original content for the FreeCAD Blog
      button: Blog content
      href: /programs/blog-content
    - text: The FPA seeks people interested in obtaining a granto to perform a specific task
      button: Job offers
      href: /programs/job-offers
---

# {{page.title}}

{{page.description}}

{% include shortcuts.html %}

{% comment %} only render if not jekyll {% endcomment %}
{% if false %}

Grants help accelerate FreeCAD development (Development fund)[/_programs/FPADF_Announcement.md]
The FPA will pay authors to write original content for the FreeCAD Blog (Blog author)[/_programs/blog_content.md]

{% endif %}
