# Meeting Minutes

**1. Meeting Information:**
- Date: 12 February 2025
- Time: 1515h UTC
- Location: Jit.si
- Attendees: chennes, wandererfan, Pieter, Yorik, oursland, sliptonic, Alex, Phonedroid

**2. Agenda Items:**
- Accountant Hiring
- January Financial Reports
- Annual Report
- FPA Designed Grant Status
- Quarterly Deadlines
- Google Summer of Code
- Pre-approved Grant Program
- Metrics, Stats, and Telemetry
- Long-term Multi-year, Multi-version Roadmap
- Initiatives Top Four
- Closed Forum Section of Educators
- Ongoing Votes
- Forum Management
- Topics to Revisit

**3. Discussion Points:**

- **Accountant Hiring:**
  - Discussion about hiring an accountant, potentially Belgian, but with strong technical skills
  - Preference for someone familiar with platforms like GitHub
  - Budget allocation for accounting services
  - Mastodon might have some recommendations
  - Estimate of hours spent on accounting needed
  - Consideration of accountants familiar with Gnu Cash
- **January Financial Reports:**
  - January spending was 12,500 euros, income was 20,000 euros
  - Need to improve spending
  - Difficulty in planning due to uncertainties in project timelines
  - Discussion of cash-based accounting vs. encumbering funds
  - Development fund spending is fuzzy
  - Delays in grant projects
- **Annual Report:**
  - Revenue forecast of 160k is somewhat arbitrary
  - Sitting on a large amount of money
  - Open vote related to the budget
  - Proofreading needed
  - Publication and announcement strategy
- **FPA Designed Grant Status:**
  - Three positions are open for applicants
  - Need to schedule a private meeting to review applicants
  - Strong applicants for two positions, Open Cascade is proving difficult
- **Grant Program 2025:**
  - Recap of submission deadlines and committee meeting dates
  - Meetings will be held via Jit.si
  - Budget vote is complete
  - $80,000 euro budget, $20,000 per quarter
- **Google Summer of Code:**
  - Org. Application is done
  - Good pool of potential mentors
  - Anticipating two slots from Google
  - "No mercy" policy, last year we were too lenient
  - Communication is key
  - Yorik to add student deadline to the FreeCAD calendar
- **Pre-approved Grant Program:**
  - Still confused about this program
  - Lacking resources to do this
  - Tabled until reqrefusion can attend
- **Metrics, Stats, and Telemetry:**
  - chennes started working on telemetry
  - Working with Kurt to learn how to do Docker in Digital Ocean lxd containers
  - Working on an add-on to determine the operating system
- **Long-term Multi-year, Multi-version Roadmap:**
  - Discussion about encouraging a roadmap from developers
  - FPA can't make the roadmap, but we could encourage the creation of it
  - Request for comments (RFC) process?
  - FPA could facilitate such a process
- **Initiatives Top Four:**
  - Keep our eyes on the initiatives top four
- **Closed Forum Section of Educators:**
  - Alex will keep contacting people
- **Ongoing Votes:**
  - All votes have now closed
- **Forum Management:**
  - Forums themselves have been basically polite and calm
  - chennes still experimenting with Discourse
- **Topics to Revisit:**
  - Grant program review
  - Educational initiatives in a holding pattern
  - Long-term structure, the FPA is in a holding pattern

**4. Decisions Made:**
- Allocate 80.000 euro budget for the FPA Development Fund, to be spent in quarters
- Add Turan and Alex to the FPA
- Table items 11 through 14 for a later discussion
- Kill item 5

**5. Action Items:**
- Estimate hours spent on accounting.
    - Person responsible: wandererfan
    - Deadline: Next meeting
- Proofread the second half of the annual report.
    - Person responsible: chennes
    - Deadline: Today
- Review annual report.
    - Person responsible: Alex
    - Deadline: Friday
- Schedule a private meeting to review grant applicants.
    - Person responsible: Admin Team
    - Deadline: ASAP
- Update the roster on the FPA website and add new members.
    - Person responsible: York
    - Deadline: ASAP
- Help correct the onboarding procedure.
    - Person responsible: Alex
    - Deadline: Unspecified
- Talk to the Mastadon people about lawyers.
    - Person responsible: Yorik
    - Deadline: Unspecified
