# Meeting Minutes

1.  Meeting Information:
    *   Date: October 8th, 2025
    *   Time: 1400h UTC
    *   Location: Virtual Meeting

2.  Agenda Items:
    *   FDA Meeting Reports
    *   Open Cascade Update
    *   Ecosystem Coordination
    *   FreeCAD Professional Network
    *   Accounting Transition
    *   Reimbursement Workflow
    *   Grant Reception
    *   Blog Team Update
    *   Accounting Transition Proposal
    *   Small Donations via PayPal
    *   Translations Manager
    *   FOSDEM Dev Room
    *   Sponsorship Process
    *   Topo Naming
    *   Jitsi Hosting Options
    *   Next Real World Meetup (FOSDEM and FreeCAD Day)
    *   Modeling Competition
    *   Test Discourse
    *   FBA Funding CI Runners
    *   2025 Grant Program
    *   Version 1.1 Release Trailer Video

3.  Discussion Points:

    *   **FPA Meeting Reports:**
        *   Brad requested reports be concise (2 minutes) and focus on needs from the FPA.
    *   **Open Cascade Liaison:**
        *   Peter reported a submitted item to OCC was fixed.
    *   **Ecosystem Coordinator:**
        *   PhoneDroid needs more direct support from Chris Hennes and discussed addon migration issues.
        *   PhoneDroid requested a project in the FreeCAD organization to track issues.
    *   **FreeCAD Professional Network:**
        *   Brad is focusing on porting and migrating data and currently doesn't need anything.
    *   **Accounting Transition:**
        *   Reqrefusion is traveling.
        *   Need a workflow for reimbursement requests sent to the FPA email.
    *   **Grant Reception:**
        *   Frank received the first payment for his position and thanked the team.
    *   **Blog Team Update:**
        *   Alex had nothing to report.
    *   **Accounting Transition Proposal:**
        *   Reqrefusion proposed a €900/month contract.
        *   Formalize Reqrefusion's access to encrypted data.
        *   Create a new position for data access instead of making Reqrefusion an admin.
        *   Create a special email for Reqrefusion.
        *   Discussed the need for a second person to review finances.
        *   The president should oversee the accounts.
    *   **Small Donations via PayPal:**
        *   PayPal takes a 35% cut on small donations.
        *   Transparency needed on the website regarding PayPal's cut.
        *   Consider eliminating donations under $5.
        *   Suggest alternative platforms like LiberaPay for small donations.
    *   **Translations Manager:**
        *   Yorik contacted luzpaz but received no reply.
        *   Alex will ping luzpaz.
        *   Kaktus's intern, David, is working on CI integration with Crowdin.
    *   **FOSDEM Dev Room:**
        *   Application submitted; waiting for a response.
    *   **Sponsorship Process:**
        *   Vote needs to be made.
    *   **Topo Naming:**
        *   Dr. Who is not interested in the money.
        *   Reach out to other people, including Real Thunder.
    *   **Jitsi Hosting Options:**
        *   Joe has no update and will explore NextCloud Talk.
    *   **Next Real World Meetup (FOSDM and FreeCAD Day):**
        *   Atelier de Tanneurs is unavailable this year.
        *   Yorik is looking for alternative locations.
        *   Consider FreeCAD Day on the Monday after FOSDEM?
        *   Hackerspace is available, but without their formal week.
        *   Frank asked about FreeCAD in-person meetings in Latin America.
        *   Debcon in Santa Fe, Argentina, next year could be an option.
        *   Linux CNC crowd may be interested if a date and location are set.
        *   Christoph Goodstein (Gmesh developer) in Liège, Belgium, could be looped in.
    *   **Modeling Competition:**
        *   Need to post the job.
    *   **Test Discourse:**
        *   Kurt has not had a chance to get back to it.
    *   **FPA Funding CI Runners:**
        *   Jackson is busy.
        *   Need to determine if anyone is willing to donate hardware.
        *   Ingress-egress costs are a significant factor.
    *   **2025 Grant Program:**
        *   Quarter three is closed out.
        *   Quarter four deadline is November 15th.
        *   Approximately €30,000 available for quarter four.
        *   Need to discuss restructuring the grant program for 2026.
        *   Pieter requested to send an invoice for the varset user experience grant even though some PRs are still missing.
    *   **Version 1.1 Release Trailer Video:**
        *   Discussed creating a video to promote the release.
        *   The previous video cost 500 euros.
        *   The video should be less than three minutes and pique curiosity.
        *   
6.  Next Meeting:
    *   Date: 15 October 2025
    *   Time: 1400h UTC
    *   Location: Jit.si
