# FreeCAD Project Association Admin Team Meeting Summary - October 22, 2025

This document summarizes the FreeCAD Project Association (FPA) admin team meeting held on October 22, 2025. The meeting covered various topics, including add-on ecosystem updates, grant applications, release trailer funding, accounting, PayPal fees, translation management, FOSDEM DevRoom application, sponsorship policy, toponaming, Jit.si hosting, Next real-world Meetup, modeling competition, test Discourse server, Ondsel Lens server, and the grant program. The purpose of the meeting was to discuss progress, address issues, and make decisions related to these areas.

## Add-on Ecosystem and Blog Team Updates

The meeting began with updates from various team members. The Add-on ecosystem coordinator reported on technical checklist progress. Sliptonic had nothing to report for the FreeCAD Professional Network. Alex from the blog team mentioned an upcoming tutorial on setting up materials and the recent GSOC update. Alex also reviewed the creative brief for block your images and sent the link to Marcus.

## Grant Application Strategy

A significant portion of the meeting was dedicated to discussing FreeCAD's approach to grant applications and a recent email encouraging the FPA to do more grant development work. The team considered whether to invest time and resources into pursuing grants, particularly smaller ones, to develop organizational maturity. Pieter noted the restrictions often associated with grants, such as citizenship or location requirements. Yorik questioned whether the FPA's goal should be to invest money to get more money. Brad suggested reaching out to an individual who expressed interest in helping with grant research, but with the caveat that they present a concrete proposal. The team agreed to invite the individual to a meeting to discuss potential grant opportunities and address concerns about resource limitations and return on investment.

## Release Trailer Funding and Accounting

The team discussed allocating funds for a FreeCAD 1.1 release trailer. Alex was tasked with getting an estimate from Chris, a video editor, for the cost of creating the trailer. Brad would then initiate a vote based on the estimate. 

## FPA Accounting

Regarding accounting, the team is awaiting the results of an open vote to finalize a contract with Turan. There is also a vote open for creating a special kind of position that has admin powers.

## PayPal Fees and Translation Management

Turan had addressed the issue of high PayPal fees by changing the text for the under-$5 donations. The team agreed to merge the changes. Alex had been unable to reach Luzpaz regarding the translation manager role. The team discussed the need for someone to bridge the gap between developers and translators, particularly on GitHub and Crowdin. Alex and Brad agreed to work offline to revise the job description for the translation manager role.

## FOSDEM

Chris and Jo have submitted the FOSDEM Open Hardware DevRoom application, with results expected in a couple of weeks. Yorik has secured two rooms for FreeCAD Day at the Tanneurs, cheaper than the previous rooms, and is evaluating other options as well. Chris has set up an OSEM server at events.freecad.org for event registration and talk proposals. 

## Modeling Competition Position

The modeling competition job posting has attracted interest, with @concretedog and the author of the kiconnect add-on as potential candidates.

## Servers and Infrastructure

The team briefly touched on the test Discourse server and Ondsel server, noting that Kurt, who was responsible for these items, was absent. 

# Grant Program

A significant discussion revolved around the grant program. While Turan felt the grant program was very successful this year, Chris expressed concern about the limited number of applicants and the lack of strategic alignment with FPA priorities. Frank emphasized the importance of modernizing the codebase and improving developer experience, not just focusing on bug fixes. Pieter highlighted the pressure from the community and the need to balance community expectations with FPA goals. Yorik suggested focusing more on bug fixing and smaller projects. The team agreed that the grant review committee needs to be more active and that the FPA needs a better way to encourage developers to work on strategic but less glamorous projects.

## Conclusion

The meeting concluded with a review of action items and open votes. Key takeaways included the need to refine the grant application strategy, secure funding for the release trailer, revise the translation manager job description, and address the lack of applicants for the grant program. The team acknowledged the importance of balancing community expectations with strategic priorities and improving developer experience.
