# FreeCAD Project Association Administrators Meeting Minutes

## 1. Meeting Information:

- **Date:** 30 April 2025
- **Time:** 1400h UTC
- **Location:** Jit.si

## 2. Agenda Items:

1. FreeCAD Professional Network Proposal
2. Orange People Support Request
3. Microsoft Laptop Donation
4. North American Meetup
5. Bounties Budget Approval
6. GSOC 2025 Projects
7. Metrics, Stats, and Telemetry
8. Forum Spam/AI Bot Mitigation
9. Recent and Upcoming Votes
10. Funding a Developer Forum
11. Finances

## 3. Discussion Points:

### FreeCAD Professional Network Proposal

* sliptonic proposed creating a FreeCAD Professional Network under the FPA umbrella.
* The meeting began with a reading of [the written proposal](2025-04-30-professional-network-proposal.md).
* Discussion revolved around the need, structure, and funding for such a network.
* sliptonic clarified the proposal's focus on building a registry and communication channels first, with infrastructure decisions to be made later based on network needs.
* Discussion about potential membership fees and their implications.
* Pieter shared a positive anecdote about a company's interest in integrating FreeCAD into their workflow, highlighting the potential value of a professional network.

### Orange People Support Request

* Yorik presented a request from a company providing support for Orange (the telephone company) seeking FreeCAD support.
* Discussion on how to connect Orange with FreeCAD developers for potential contract work.
* sliptonic volunteered to communicate with Orange and qualify their needs.

### Microsoft Laptop Donation

* Microsoft is donating a Copilot Plus Snapdragon laptop to the FPA for FreeCAD development on ARM.
* Discussion about the laptop's future use and potential as a giveaway item.
* Pieter expressed enthusiasm for Microsoft's interest in FreeCAD.
* chennes outlined his plan to get FreeCAD working on the Windows-on-ARM architecture.

### North American Meetup

* Scheduled for the second weekend of August in Springfield, Illinois.
* Alex agreed to create a blog post about the meetup.

### Bounties Budget Approval

* The â‚¬5,000 bounties budget was approved.

### GSOC 2025 Projects

* Three projects were requested: Screen Widget, 3D PDF embedding, and Multiple Document Editing.
* Discussion about mentors and the upcoming Google decision on May 8th.

### Metrics, Stats, and Telemetry

* The telemetry website is live and updating weekly, adhering to the FPA's privacy policy.
* Compatibility issues with FreeCAD 0.21 were discussed.

### Forum Spam/AI Bot Mitigation

* Kurt implemented an AI bot mitigation solution on the forum and wiki.
* Discussion about donating to the developer of the mitigation solution for their work.

### Recent and Upcoming Votes

* CWG Bounty program and sticker printing votes were approved. No open votes currently.

### Funding a Developer Forum

* Discussion about testing modern forum frameworks. Progress is currently stalled pending the release of Flarum 2.0.

### Finances

* No specific discussion details provided.

## 4. Decisions Made:

- Approve FreeCAD Professional Network proposal and move forward with a formal vote.
- sliptonic to communicate with Orange regarding their support request.
- Accept Microsoft's laptop donation.
- Consider donating to AI mitigation developer for forum spam/AI bot mitigation.
