# FreeCAD Project Association Administrators Meeting Summary - October 29, 2025

This document summarizes the FreeCAD Project Association Administrators meeting held on October 29, 2025. The meeting covered various topics including infrastructure maintenance, open cascade liaison report, add-on ecosystem updates, FreeCAD professional network, grant program, bounty program, and upcoming events.

### OpenCASCADE Liaison Report

Pieter presented an Open Cascade (OCCT) liaison report, detailing a resolved issue and seeking feedback on his role. He mentioned focusing on crashes and asked for opinions on how to improve his contributions.

*   **Dashboard Contribution:** It was noted that Pieter's dashboard on GitHub was a valuable contribution, providing a centralized location for information.
*   **Community Connection:** There was a discussion on the importance of connecting the community, encouraging OCCT people to participate and collaborate.
*   **Tooling Importance:** It was also noted that investing in tools for investigating issues is more valuable than addressing individual problems.
*   **Minimal Models:** Pieter mentioned creating a video on making minimal models for OCCT, but it didn't receive much feedback.
*   **Bisecting:** The potential benefit of having a dedicated bisecting person was discussed to help identify issues.

### Add-on Ecosystem
John provided an update on the FreeCAD plot add-on, which has been rewritten and released. He inquired about the process for discussing future infrastructure improvements, receiving confirmation that Kurt is the go-to expert. Yorik mentioned being on Matrix but hadn't seen John's contact attempts. He also discussed bindings and API improvements, with plans to present options in the future.

### FreeCAD Professional Network Updates

Brad shared updates on the FreeCAD Professional Network (FPN), highlighting a meeting with Umesh, an entrepreneur in India. Umesh is building a transport system and is interested in using FreeCAD, particularly its parametric and scriptable capabilities.

*   **Startup in India:** Umesh's startup is unusual for India, as it has funding and a number of engineers.
*   **Varset interest**: Umesh is very interested in Varset related topics.
*   **Scripting:** He is interested in the scripting capability of it.
*   **Parametric tool:** He wanted to use it as a parametric tool from the start.
*   **Second Meeting:** A second meeting with Umesh and his team was scheduled, and Ajinkia was connected to provide consulting.
*   **FPN Role:** Brad sees the FPN as being in an ideal position to help companies like Umesh's.

### Infrastructure

Kurt provided an update on his recent infrastructure work, focusing on deploying a Lens server to lens.freecad.org. No further progress was reported on other infrastructure initiatives such as the test Discourse server.

## Mandatory Invoices

The discussion then moved to mandatory invoices from January 2026 onward. Yorik explained the need to accept electronic invoices and proposed a simple, cost-effective solution. The proposed solution, costing around $50 per year, fell within the discretionary spending limit, negating the need for a formal vote.

## Bounties

The group then discussed increasing bug bounties for regressions, blockers, and crashes to incentivize developers to focus on critical issues. 
One proposal involved automatically doubling bounties for issues marked as blockers or regressions. The administrators agreed it was a good idea, but it would require an FPA vote and a capped budget.
The discussion then moved to making a general budget plan for the grant and bounty programs. Chris Hennes will develop a concrete budget proposal.
Key points included:

*   **Restructuring Bounties**: Restructuring the existing bounty program.
*   **Linking Grant and Bounty Program**: Combining some grant funds with funds for the bounty program.

## FOSDEM, FreeCAD Day, and Community Outreach

*   **FOSDEM Dev Room:** The Open Hardware and CAD/CAM dev room at FOSDEM was confirmed, with a call for participation underway.
*   **Publicity:** Publicity efforts included blog posts, forum posts, and Mastodon posts. The group discussed additional channels for publicity, including Reddit and Facebook groups.
*   **FreeCAD Day:** York and Chris were working on finding locations for FreeCAD Day. It was agreed to use the open-source event manager to collect details, and the event was listed on events.freecad.org.

# Key Takeaways and Decisions

The meeting concluded with a review of action items and upcoming deadlines. Key takeaways and decisions included:

*   **Pieter** to continue his work as OCCT Liaison, focusing on creating tools and connecting the community.
*   **Brad** to connect with Dimitri regarding the Professional Network and FOSDEM.
*   **Brad** to invite Adam Santorelli to talk about setting up lands for his organization.
*   **York** to contact hackerspace and coordinate open space for freecad contributors.
*   **Admin Team** to make public review a draft document for the bounty program, taking into account the need for both grants and bounties.
*   **Brad** to post vote-up for the release video, which would allow the hired person to get started.

The meeting ended with reminders about the upcoming US time change and the quarter four grant submission deadline.
