### Meeting Start and Absences

The meeting begins with Yorik noting their absence from the upcoming merge meeting and their late arrival to this meeting due to travel.  The absence of Hennes is also noted, with Yorik taking on his responsibilities.  The recording process is discussed, confirming screen recording is being used.  Finally, Yorik confirms the absence of Wandererfan and proposes starting the meeting without them.

### Action Items Review and Updates

The meeting proceeds to review action items. Item 15 (donation to AI software) is tabled pending further information. Item 14 (OCCT liaison overview) is postponed due to Peter's unavailability.  Regarding item 13 (bank account access), Yorik reports investigating Odoo for electronic invoices and its integration with BNP Paribas.  They also explored Triodos Bank, a traditional ethical bank open to non-profit accounts, as an alternative to BNP Paribas, suggesting opening an account with them.  The discussion clarifies that Triodos is not a neobank but a traditional bank with a focus on ethical banking and NGOs.

### Exploring New Bank Account Options

Yorik proposes opening a bank account with Triodos bank, considered one of the better options compared to others, due to its relatively free basic account.  They will investigate if this bank offers suitable NGO account options, requiring a meeting.  If successful, this new account would potentially replace the existing BNP accounts.

### Investigating Odoo for Accounting and Invoicing

Yorik plans to use Odoo for personal electronic invoicing and explores its potential for FPA.  Odoo is described as an open-source platform with numerous modules for client management, invoicing, accounting, and website management.  It offers both self-hosting and a paid hosted option. While self-hosting requires technical expertise, Yorik notes the system's similarity to WordPress.

### Accountant Selection and Odoo's Potential Role

The discussion shifts to finding an accountant.  A challenge is finding someone who is both Belgian (to handle Belgian accounting specifics) and comfortable with the open-source world.  Using Odoo could be interesting there, allowing for greater transparency and control over accounting processes.  This would enable the team to monitor the accountant's work and prevent potential errors.  While this is considered a future consideration, the benefits of increased transparency and control are highlighted.

### Community Perception of Maintainer Compensation

The group discusses the potential for providing compensation to maintainers. While there's general agreement on the principle, concerns are raised about how this might be perceived by the community.  Yorik expresses worry that community members who donate small amounts might feel their contributions are solely benefiting maintainers, potentially leading to negative reactions and accusations of favoritism.  The solution proposed is to frame the compensation as a "thank you gift" to avoid any obligation or expectation of increased workload.  Clear communication emphasizing the voluntary nature of the gift is deemed crucial.

### Extending Compensation to Forum Moderators

The conversation expands to include forum moderators.  A suggestion is made to implement a similar year-end reward system for moderators based on performance metrics, such as the number of moderation actions performed.

### Maintainer Rewards and Recognition

Discussion regarding rewards or gifts for maintainers who have contributed significantly to the project throughout the year.  The conversation explores the idea of acknowledging their contributions, with a suggestion of providing a reward or gift.  Peter, while not a maintainer, offers input, suggesting the role of a maintainer is not clearly defined.  The group concludes that a consensus on the reward system is lacking and requires further discussion in the following week.

### Google Summer of Code (GSOC) Applicant Follow-up

The discussion centers on the follow-up process for Google Summer of Code (GSOC) applicants who were not awarded grants.  An email was sent to all applicants (excluding one identified as spam), expressing encouragement and providing links to other opportunities within the community, including alternative grants.  One applicant responded positively.  The group considers the matter concluded, with no further action required.

### FreeCAD Professional Network and Miscellaneous Items

The meeting briefly addresses item 11, which involves redirecting unaccepted GSOC applications to FPA grants.  The status of this item is marked as complete.  Item 9, establishing the FreeCAD Professional Network, is discussed, with Brad's input awaited.  Finally, item 8, concerning a Microsoft laptop for Chris Hens, is noted as ongoing, and item 7 is mentioned but the details are cut off.

### North American Meetup and Grant Update

Alex mentions plans to post updates about the North American Meetup, pending feedback from a colleague. Pieter shares an update on a grant submission for an Ondsel Lens add-on, detailing positive feedback received after addressing reviewer questions with Brad's assistance.  He notes a subsequent blog post announcing Ondsel Lens' trial availability.

### North American KiCon Attendance

Jackson announces his attendance at the North American KiCon, starting Wednesday of the following week.
