# Meeting Minutes: FPA Admin Team

1. Meeting Information:
   - Date: Wednesday, October 1st
   - Time: 1400 hours UTC
   - Location: Jitsi online

2. Agenda Items:
   - OpenCascade Liaison Report
   - Add-on Ecosystem Technical Lead Update
   - Reqrefusion Accounting Transition
   - Blog Team Updates
   - High PayPal Fees for Low Donations
   - Translations Manager Role
   - FOSDEM Dev Room
   - Formalizing the Sponsorship Policy
   - Honorarium for Maintainers
   - Position-Specific Funding for Toponaming Work
   - Gipsy Hosting Options/Automatic Recording
   - Next Real World Meetup
   - Fund Someone to Create a Modeling Competition
   - Standing Up a Test Discourse
   - 2025 Grant Program

3. Discussion Points:

   *   **Grant Status**
    *   Grants are ending today. Enough votes to close.

   *   **OpenCascade Liaison Report**
    *   Peter related a story about a user who created a DRAW script that needed minimal changes.

   *   **Add-on Ecosystem Technical Lead Update**
    *   Frank is working on Python integration improvements for add-on developers.
    *   Modernizing Python bindings in FreeCAD.
    *   Creating a wrapper to connect core code with Python.
    *   Goal is to have C++ signatures similar to Python equivalents.

   *   **Reqrefusion Accounting Transition**
    *   Accounting transition is on track for September.

   *   **Blog Team Updates**
    *   Alex reports everything is as usual.

   *   **High PayPal Fees for Low Donations**
    *   Discussion about high PayPal fees for small donations -- 35% for donations under $5.
    *   Transparency for donors about fees is desired.
    *   Suggestion to encourage larger, less frequent donations.
    *   Reqrefusion to explore website changes for transparency.
    *   20 people donate $1 and 10 donate $2 monthly.
    *   Graphics for August PayPal data are available.

   *   **Translations Manager Role**
    *   Yorik to reach out to @luzpaz.

   *   **FOSDEM Dev Room**
    *   Jo and Chris submitted a DevRoom proposal.

   *   **Formalizing the Sponsorship Policy**
    *   Vote to be put up after grant voting.

   *   **Honorarium for Maintainers**
    *   reqrefusion put up a vote, which passed.
    *   12,000 euro per year budget already allocated.
    *   reqrefusion to make a pull request to get this into the handbook.

   *   **Position-Specific Funding for Toponaming Work**
    *   Chris reached out to Doctor Who, who declined funding.
    *   Chris to contact another person involved in toponaming.
    *   Vincenzo Caligaro was a former team member who got a grant.
    *   Suggestion to reach out to John who worked at Ondsel.
    *   Suggestion to reach out to Real Thunder.

   *   **Gipsy Hosting Options/Automatic Recording**
    *   Joe found one host with integrated recording/transcription but hasn't heard back.
    *   Other hosts offer automated deployment but not real-time transcription.
    *   Critical thing is getting the recordings.
    *   Billy suggests Big Blue Button, an open-source solution.

   *   **Next Real World Meetup**
    *   Meetup will be at FreeCAD Day and FOSDEM.
    *   Funding allocated: 8,350 euros.
    *   Hackathon planned for Thursday.

   *   **Fund Someone to Create a Modeling Competition**
    *   Need to post the job.

   *   **Standing Up a Test Discourse**
    *   Kurt was sick, so no update.
    *   Discussion about Discord's terms of service and the desire to move more discussions off that platform if possible.

   *   **2025 Grant Program**
    *   Vote is over.
    *   Eight to be funded, three declined.

4. Decisions Made:
   - Close the grant voting process.
   - Defer Frank's grant proposal.
   - Proceed with funding the remaining grants.
   - Implement transparency measures on the website regarding PayPal fees.
   - Discuss CI runner efficiency at a future dev meeting.
   - Start discussing the 2026 grant program at next week's meeting.

6. Next Meeting:
   - Date: Next week
   - Topic: Discuss the 2026 grant program
