# FPA Admin Team Meeting Minutes

## 1. Meeting Information:
- Date: 10 September 2025
- Time: 1400h UTC
- Location: Jitsi

## 2. Agenda Items:
- OpenCascade Liaison Report
- Add-on Ecosystem Coordinator Report
- Add-on Ecosystem Technical Lead Report
- FreeCAD Professional Network Update
- Translatable Text/Blog Team Update
- Contract Clarification for Add-on Ecosystem Roles
- Honorarium for Maintainers
- Toponaming Job Position
- Self-Hosting Jitsi
- Professor Kanan Presentation
- Logo and Infringements Discussion
- Contact GitHub Sponsors
- Recurring Events Consistency
- Modeling Competition Funding
- Test Discourse Setup
- Hero Images and Blog Post Template
- FPA Member for Grant Affairs
- Operating an OnSIL Server
- FPA Funding CI Runners
- 2025 Grant Program
- Finances
- Open Votes

## 3. Discussion Points:

### OpenCascade Liaison Report
- Pieter provided a brief report.

### Add-on Ecosystem Coordinator Report
- PhoneDroid discussed an improvement open for the add-on manager.
- Mentioned Spanner 888 wanting to leave CamScript open but not maintain it.
- Contact with more add-on authors.

### Add-on Ecosystem Technical Lead Report
- Frank shared experiments for automatic analysis of official add-ons with Lisa and Yorik.
- Discussed using Bandit for code scanning and customizing it for specific patterns.
- Need to discuss the plan with Yorik.
- Bandit code scanner results on add-ons.

### FreeCAD Professional Network Update
- Brad started inviting people to join and test the sign-up link.
- A few people are signing up, but the project is currently idle.

### Translatable Text/Blog Team Update
- No representatives present for reporting.

### Contract Clarification for Add-on Ecosystem Roles
- Yorik noted similarities between PhoneDroid and Frank's job descriptions.
- Suggestion to clearly define the differences in their roles and purposes in the contracts.
- PhoneDroid is more community-focused, while Frank is more technically focused.
- Frank to focus on helping developers make better add-ons.
- PhoneDroid to focus on contacting developers and researching developer communities.
- Discussion on the importance of having two people for the add-on ecosystem.
- Frank to focus on future standards and improvements, while PhoneDroid focuses on current developer status.
- Brad suggested Frank and PhoneDroid figure out how to divide the work.

### Honorarium for Maintainers
- Discussion about the new text for the honorarium.
- Decision to set aside 10 minutes in the next meeting to read and discuss the text.

### Toponaming Job Position
- Discussion about the ideal toponaming position.
- Frank suggested a plain document explaining the current toponaming solution and API.
- Discussion on whether it should be a one-time grant or an ongoing position.
- Suggestion to do a one-time grant first.
- Yorik suggested talking to Dr. Who about plans and involvement.

### Self-Hosting Jitsi
- Discussion about hosting their own Jitsi instance.
- Kurt mentioned using the Free Software Foundation Jitsi.
- Pieter shared experience with setting up a Jitsi instance, noting resource requirements.
- Suggestion to have a non-Discord backup plan.
- Discussion about automated recording benefits.
- Suggestion to explore a hosted solution.

### Contact GitHub Sponsors
- Survey items are nearly complete, Brad and Reqrefusion continue to iterate.

### Recurring Events Consistency
- Wandererfan drafted a planning worksheet.
- Discussion about the 2026 North American meetup.

### Modeling Competition Funding
- A job description was drafted.
- Discussion on whether it should be a call for proposals or a job offering.

### Test Discourse Setup
- On Kurt's radar.

### Hero Images and Blog Post Template
- No discussion needed, still on Alex's TODO list

### Operating an Ondsel Server
- On Kurt's to-do list.

### FPA Funding CI Runners
- Still in progress.

### 2025 Grant Program
- Submissions received for quarter three.
- Committee to meet on September 20th.

### Finances
- Still nothing to report.

### Open Votes
- One open vote for a grant to Ajinkya is likely not happening.

## 4. Decisions Made:
- Set aside 10 minutes in the next meeting to read and discuss the honorarium text.
- Yorik will draft two different contract texts for PhoneDroid and Frank, then all three will edit.
- Explore costs for a hosted Jitsi solution.
- Decide on a backup plan for Jitsi.
- Brad to transfer planning worksheets for recurring events.
- Team to review the job description for the modeling competition.

## 6. Next Meeting:
- Date: 17 Sept 2025
- Time: 1400h UTC
- Location: Jitsi
