# FreeCAD Admin Forum Meeting Summary - November 12th

This document summarizes the FreeCAD Admin Forum meeting held on November 12th, focusing on project updates, budget discussions, and community engagement strategies. Key topics included the test launch of the devtalk.freecad.org forum, ongoing grant programs, and preparations for upcoming events like FOSDEM and FreeCAD Day.

---

## Infrastructure and Forum Updates

*   Kurt Kremitsky provided an update on the new developer forum, devtalk.freecad.org, which is now available as a test deployment. The forum is a backup from the developer section and includes all users and posts from that section.
*   Users can log in with their existing credentials or via GitHub. There are a few known issues such as email and discourse functionality not working.
*   Kurt is also working on getting the WebSocket reverse proxy situation with the Lens server working.

## OpenCascade Liaison

*   Pieter Hijma reported that a user working on CamPath is encountering issues with OpenCascade and is willing to help resolve them.

## Addon Ecosystem Coordinator

*   John noted he didn't have a lot of time to work on ecosystem coordination but had addressed some issues with the add-ons repository raised by Brad.
*   John questioned the listed currency for his conversation job, noting it was listed in euros instead of dollars.
*   Chris clarified that it was likely a mistake and John could edit it. The discussion highlighted the need to ensure correct currency assignments in contracts.

## Add-on Developer Community and Blog

*   Frank expressed interest in starting an extension developer community but needs help with the infrastructure. He suggested using the new dev talk forum or continuing with Discord.
*   The team discussed the need for a separate blog for technical developer articles, distinct from the official FreeCAD blog.

## DevTalk Organization and Functionality

*   The team discussed categorizing the dev talk forum, including a separate category for add-ons.
*   John emphasized the need for an isolated space for developers to avoid mixing technical discussions with casual user topics.

## Blog Team and Invoice Processing

*   Alex provided an update from the blog team, mentioning Thomas Pollock's tutorial and his need to submit an invoice for the blog post contribution.
*   It was clarified that if Thomas doesn't have a business to create an invoice, he can simply receive a donation.
    * Email address for invoices

## Asset/Model Curator Position and 2026 Budget

*   Discussion of a proposal to create a paid position as an asset/model curator was tabled due to Brad's absence.
*   Chris presented a proposed budget for 2026, highlighting the need to account for all potential spending, including grant and bug bounty programs.

## FreeCAD Day Invitations and DigiVac Updates

*   Yorik contacted Werner and Zolko to invite them to FreeCAD Day. Werner declined, while Zolko may attend.
*   Updates regarding mandatory e-invoices starting up on DigiVac are pending until testing is completed.

## Bug Bounty Program and Invoicing

*   The team noted an increase in bug bounty requests. Chris Jones submitted for a bug bounty, and another is expected soon.
*   A discussion clarified the process for contributors to receive payment (invoice vs. donation).

## Release Trailer Video and Assets

*   Chris Rogers is working on the release trailer video, having completed the script and gathered assets. He questioned the best location for the project's issue tracking.
*   Chris Hennes offered to create a new "Assets" repo on GitHub for organizing video and blog assets, with Chris Rogers added as a maintainer.

## FOSDEM Swag and Merchandise

*   The team discussed swag options for FOSDEM with a limited budget. Chris Rogers offered to donate graphics work for business cards with FreeCAD hotkeys.
*   Yorik mentioned potentially printing t-shirts but noted the challenge of managing stock.

## Key Takeaways and Decisions

The meeting covered a range of administrative and strategic topics, with a strong focus on improving community resources and outreach. Key decisions included:

*   Moving forward with the devtalk.freecad.org forum as a test deployment, addressing reported bugs, and gathering community feedback.
*   Supporting Pieter Hijma's work with OpenCascade and CamPath.
*   Approving a grant for Pieter to document toponaming issues.
*   Establishing a new "Assets" repository on GitHub to organize project resources.
*   Exploring options for inexpensive and engaging swag for FOSDEM, focusing on practical items like hotkey cards.
*   Continuing to plan for FreeCAD Day and encouraging community submissions.
*   Post needs approval configuration at devtalk
