# FreeCAD Project Association Meeting Minutes

## 1. Meeting Information:

- **Date:** 9 April 2025
- **Time:** 1600 CEST
- **Location:** Jit.si

## 2. Agenda Items:

- Microsoft outreach and Windows ARM compatibility
- Pieter's NLNet grant application
- Broken weekly builds feedstock
- Broken debug build on Windows
- Currency used for contracts (dollars vs. euros)
- Conditional sponsorship of university clubs
- Hiring a full-time employee vs. supporting volunteers
- March financials
- North American meetup
- FPA funding policy (one-time funding)
- Vardin Gulkanyan's project
- Special budget for KiCAD grant proposals
- Meeting with KiCAD and KiCAD Connect
- Funding CI runners
- Website analytics investigation
- CAT working group grant proposal
- Grant program next submission deadline
- Google Summer of Code (GSoC)
- Metrics, statistics, and telemetry
- 10-year plan
- Sticker printing cost vote
- Developer forum issues

## 3. Discussion Points:

### Microsoft Outreach:
Microsoft contacted the FPA about compiling FreeCAD on Windows ARM systems. chennes will meet with them. He will be sure to ask about sponsorship opportunities.

### Pieter's GSoD Grant:
Pieter advanced to the second round of the NLNet application. FPA may provide support if needed.

### Broken Weekly Builds Feedstock:
The weekly builds feedstock is functioning again thanks to Adrian. A PR from Jackson is pending to improve the build process.

### Broken Debug Build on Windows:
A contributor is having trouble building FreeCAD in debug mode on Windows.  Discussion on how to best support the contributor and whether a debug build of OCCT is necessary.

### Currency for Contracts:
Pieter questioned the use of dollars in contracts.  The FPA uses both dollars and euros due to the international nature of donations and expenses.  Pieter will invoice in euros.

### University Club Sponsorship:
Discussion on whether to sponsor university clubs using FreeCAD. Concerns were raised about fiduciary responsibility and alignment with donor intent.

### Full-Time Employee vs. Volunteer Support:
Discussion on whether to hire a full-time employee or distribute funds among volunteers.  The FPA is not currently considering hiring a full-time developer so the point was considered moot.

### March Financials:
Financials were reviewed. Donations are down compared to the last few months, but new donors are also joining.

### North American Meetup:
Tentative dates set for August 8th-9th in Springfield, Illinois. No budget allocated yet.

### FPA Funding Policy:
Clarification that FPA funding is a one-time grant and developers are encouraged to seek funding from multiple sources.

### KiCAD Grant Proposals:
Discussion on allocating a special budget for KiCAD-related grant proposals. Concerns were raised about targeting funds towards a specific project.

### Meeting with KiCAD and KiCAD Connect:
sliptonic will coordinate a meeting with KiCAD, KiCAD Connect devveloper, and other relevant parties to discuss integration.

### Funding CI Runners:
Still under investigation by Jackson.

### Website Analytics:
Investigation of website analytics is still pending.

### CAD Working Group Grant Proposal:
The CAD working group is preparing a grant proposal. The FPA will vote on it independently of the regular grant review cycle.

### Google Summer of Code:
23 GSoC proposals received. Mentors are reviewing proposals and will rank them for selection.

### Metrics and Telemetry:
The telemetry add-on is live, and a webpage to display the statistics is in development.

### 10-Year Plan:
Pieter reported on his discussions with developers regarding a 10-year plan.  Ideas include bounties, addressing OCC-related issues, improving website visibility, and identifying adoption blockers.

### Sticker Printing Cost Vote:
A vote is underway to approve sticker printing costs that slightly exceed the discretionary limit.

### Developer Forum Issues:
A test forum using Flarum is being set up to address ongoing issues with the main forum.


## 4. Decisions Made:

- Pieter will invoice in euros for his FPA grant.
- The CAD working group's grant proposal will be voted on separately.
- Sticker printing costs exceeding the discretionary limit will be put to a vote.
- A test forum using Flarum will be implemented.
