# FreeCAD Projects Association Meeting Summary - August 20th

This document summarizes the FreeCAD Projects Association (FPA) meeting held on Wednesday, August 20th, focusing on various ongoing projects, budget allocations, job postings, and strategic discussions regarding the future of FreeCAD's development and community engagement. The meeting addressed key action items and aimed to make decisions on several pending proposals.

## Recording and Agenda

The meeting began with a discussion about recording methods, including local backups and potential commercial Jitsi subscriptions. The official recording was confirmed by "ScreenApp.io overlord". The agenda included topics ranging from long-term GitHub strategy to budget allocation for bug resolution and maintainer honorariums.

## GitHub and Open Source Strategy

### Concerns and Perspectives
Yorik initiated a discussion about the long-term strategy regarding GitHub, expressing concerns about GitHub's increasing use of open source code for AI training purposes. He questioned whether the FPA should consider moving to platforms like Codeberg or self-hosting their Git repositories.

### Counterarguments and Pragmatism
Jackson argued that open source projects are inherently public, and moving to another platform wouldn't prevent AI training on the code. He highlighted the convenience and interconnectedness of GitHub for open source projects. chennes echoed this, emphasizing the widespread adoption of GitHub among developers and the potential friction caused by using less popular platforms. He stated, "When they go full evil, okay, then we can talk about moving out".

### Conclusion
The consensus was to remain on GitHub for now, but to maintain readiness to migrate if necessary. The group agreed to avoid actions that would further tie them to the platform.

## GitHub Sponsors and Analytics

### Contacting Sponsors
The discussion shifted to contacting GitHub sponsors, with a focus on sending welcome messages and gathering analytics. The goal is to understand why people are sponsoring FreeCAD and to express gratitude.

### Survey and Feedback
The team reviewed a draft survey to be sent to sponsors, aiming to collect information on how they found FreeCAD and how they are using it. The survey's length was discussed, with a preference for brevity.

### Action Items
The team agreed to move forward with a friendly thank you message and the survey, pending review and feedback from Reqrefusion.

## Recurring Events and FPA Administrators

### Event Planning
The group discussed improving consistency in recurring events, with sliptonic working on a template and checklist for planning. Collaboration with Lewis and a professor in Canada was mentioned.

### Job Application Review
chennes provided an update on the review of job applications, including the Add-on Ecosystem Coordinator and FreeCAD Professional Network positions. Five applicants for the add-on ecosystem coordinator position were asked to draft a paragraph about their qualifications. The FPA administrators scheduled a closed session for Friday to review the applications.

## Financial Matters

### Defunct Grants
The team discussed the policy for handling money from defunct grants. Two options were considered: returning the funds to the grant pool or incorporating them into the general budget. The consensus was that the default should be to return the money to the grant pool, requiring a vote only if an alternative action is desired.

### Modeling Competition
The group agreed that a modeling competition proposal was ready for a vote, with chennes volunteering to initiate the vote to avoid any perception of credit-taking.

### Forum Improvement
The discussion covered allocating funds to improve the forum experience, with Kurt setting up a Discourse server. The team considered domain name options, with "devtalk.freecad.org" being a favored suggestion. The purpose is to experiment with a better platform for developer discussion.

### Maintainer Honorariums
The team discussed allocating a budget for maintainer honorariums, referencing GitHub issue 349. The proposal involves a 3,000 euro grant for eligible maintainers who apply. A two-step process was agreed upon: first, a vote to allocate funds, and then individual votes for each maintainer. A budget of 12,000 euros was proposed, mirroring the existing budget for bug triage.

### Other Financial Items
*   **CI Runners:** No progress due to Jackson's move.
*   **North American Meetup:** A funding authorization vote is needed for money already spent, pending a summary from Sliptonic and Connor.

## Other Business

### FPA Handbook
Alexandre will migrate the description of the FPA member assigned for grant affairs into the FPA handbook.

### Ondsel Server
Brad will contact Amritpal about further work on the Ondsel server.

### Alibre CAD and Linux CNC
Brad is meeting with Joseph Larson from Alibre CAD to discuss data model migration and has initiated a conversation with the Linux CNC community developer.

## Conclusion

The FPA meeting covered a wide range of topics, from strategic decisions about platform usage to practical matters of budget allocation and job postings. Key takeaways include the decision to remain on GitHub while staying prepared to migrate, the plan to engage GitHub sponsors with a welcome message and survey, and the allocation of 12,000 euros for maintainer honorariums. The FPA administrators scheduled a closed session to review job applications, and several action items were assigned to ensure progress on ongoing projects.
