# Meeting Minutes

## 1. Meeting Information:
*   **Date:** Wednesday, September 17th
*   **Time:** 1400h UTC
*   **Location:** Jit.si

## 2. Agenda Items:
*   Item 17: Reports from positions
*   Item 16: Yorik and Cosmo
*   Item 15: FreeCAD Day Organization
*   Item 14: Formalizing Sponsorship Policy
*   Item 13: Yorik working with PhoneDroid and Frank on their contracts
*   Item 12: Honorarium for Maintainers
*   Item 11: Toponaming Position
*   Item 10: Should we host our own Jitsi?
*   Item 9: Contacting GitHub sponsors
*   Item 8: Next Real World Meetup
*   Item 7: Ad team needed to review job description
*   Item 5: Template for hero images and blog posts on the website
*   Item 4: Operating an onsole server
*   Item 3: FPA funding CI runners
*   Item 2: 2025 grant program
*   Item 1: Finances

## 3. Discussion Points:

### Standing Item 17:
*   **Infrastructure Maintenance (Kurt):**
    *   Kurt worked on using a backup of the phpbb forum to restore to a new Discourse "devtalk" forum. He is converting a recent backup locally and will restore it to the target server.
    *   He will also do the same with a 2023 backup, potentially having an older version of the developer section of the forum available this week.
    *   Kurt investigated mail deliverability issues on the forum, suspecting rate limiting due to a high number of PHP workers connecting to the mail server.
    *   He mentioned being distracted by sphinx search errors in the logs.
*   **Open Cascade Liaison (Pieter):**
    *   Pieter processed issues where he was pinged for OCCT issues.
    *   He submitted issues to Open Cascade and is focusing on regressions marked in the issue tracker.
    *   Pieter questioned whether to focus on crashes instead of regressions, suggesting crashes might be a higher priority for Open Cascade.
    *   Yorik suggested Pieter decide where to focus his efforts.
    *   Turan stated that they are giving money for position developers to choose.
    *   Yorik suggested having success stories to build trust in the system.
*   **Add-on Ecosystem (Frank):**
    *   Frank started running analysis on existing add-ons in the official add-ons report.
    *   He created scripts to automatically fetch add-ons and run analysis on dependencies and code quality.
    *   Frank generated a report and sent it to Yorik and Chris for review.
    *   The report contains information on security issues, including potential leaked passwords.
    *   Chris updated the Addon Manager to manage dependencies with constraint files.
    *   Frank is using a standard Python tool to analyze code and extract dependencies.
    *   Discussion on whether to contact authors individually or publish a simplified version of the report.
    *   Chris suggested dealing with password leaks first and reporting security vulnerabilities responsibly.
*   **FPN (Brad):** No updates.
*   **Accounting Transition (Turan):** Turan is in the learning process.
*   **Blog Team (Alex):** No news.

### Item 16: Yorik and Cosmo:
*   Manuela will return to work next month, and Cosmo will not be placed in daycare yet.
*   Yorik will care for Cosmo for about six months and may have less time for FreeCAD.
*   Yorik questioned whether he should remain president of the FPA.
*   Brad suggested that rotating the president role is healthier for the organization.
*   Discussion on Yorik's activity as a maintainer on Arch/BIM.
*   Yorik plans to elect someone to manage Arch/BIM.
*   Alex mentioned four workbenches without maintainers.
*   Chris stated that if Yorik can make it to most meetings, there is no problem with him staying on as president.
*   Discussion on compensation for the president.
*   Yorik will continue to handle the Belgian part of the administration regardless.
*   Yorik will follow up on the FPA forum to see if anyone wants to be president.

### Item 15: FreeCAD Day Organization:
*   Chris agreed to organize FreeCAD Day as long as Yorik can contract with l'Atelier de Tanneurs for a space.
*   Chris will also organize the open hardware and CAD/CAM dev room at FOSDEM, with Joe Hinchliffe as co-coordinator.
*   Need for five more people to help with door management, running the camera, and passing out microphones at FOSDEM.
*   Need for reviewers for speaker submissions.
*   Discussion on the team size and contacting QCAD people.

### Item 14: Formalizing Sponsorship Policy:
*   Chris created a sponsorship policy draft.
*   The policy emphasizes getting something back from sponsorships, such as blog posts or tutorials.
*   Discussion on whether the policy is ready for a vote.

### Item 13: Yorik working with PhoneDroid and Frank on their contracts:
*   Yorik created a first draft of the contracts and discussed it with PhoneDroid and Frank.
*   John agreed with the contracts.
*   Frank stated the contracts are okay for him.
*   Yorik mentioned a small output in an agenda before the Saturday meeting.

### Item 12: Honorarium for Maintainers:
*   The team read the honorarium policy.
*   Yorik suggested the basic 200 EUR could be voted together with the general budget by the FPA.
*   Discussion on whether the 200 EUR is the basic honorarium and if a person can ask for more.
*   Chris stated that it is good to have the extra bit in there.
*   Discussion on how to budget for the additional money.
*   Brad raised concerns about defining core maintainers and the FPA's role in appointing them.
*   Chris stated that the handbook has a list of core maintainers.
*   Chris suggested keeping it simple and eliminating the additional ask and approval.
*   Turan suggested fixing the honorarium change to 100.
*   Kurt suggested doing the 200 euros a month flat and budgeting an additional pool for above and beyond requests next time.
*   Frank stated that the 200 thing is an honorarium, not a salary.
*   Chris suggested simplifying the program and having maintainers write to the FPA if the fixed amount doesn't cut it.

### Item 11: Toponaming Position:
*   Chris pinged Dr. Who on Discord but didn't receive a response.
*   Chris will ping again.

### Item 10: Should we host our own Jitsi?:
*   Joe investigated Jitsi hosting options.
*   Brad suggested emailing Jitsi directly to negotiate a discount.
*   Frank questioned the need to host their own Jitsi.
*   Chris stated that the goal is automatic recording and transcription of meetings, not self-hosting.

### Item 9: Contacting GitHub sponsors:
*   Brad made comments on the survey that Recrefusion created.
*   The next steps are to extract the GitHub sponsor list, prepare an email, and send out the survey.

### Item 8: Next Real World Meetup:
*   The next real-world meetup will be at FOSDEM.
*   Chris and Jo will put together a dev room.
*   FreeCAD Day will likely be on Friday.

### Item 7: Admin team needs to review job description:
*   The admin team still needs to review the job description for the modeling competition coordinator

### Item 5: Template for hero images and blog posts on the website:
*   Alex responded to Marcus Polio on Discord.

### Item 4: Operating an Ondsel server:
*   Kurt is working on this

### Item 3: FPA funding CI runners:
*   Still on the FPA's plate, Jackson Oursland to deliver final report as his time allows

### Item 2: 2025 grant program:
*   The grant review committee is doing their review of the Q3 grants.

### Item 1: Finances:
*   No further progresds

### Item 0: Other discussions
*   John asked who wanted to make a list or diagram of all the groups and people in FreeCAD.
*   John asked who is responsible for the Part workbench.
*   Frank stated that FreeCAD documentation is more efficient now.

## 4. Decisions Made:
*   Chris will organize FreeCAD Day and the FOSDEM dev room.
*   The team will deal with password leaks in add-ons first and report security vulnerabilities responsibly.
*   Yorik will follow up on the FPA forum to see if anyone wants to be president.
*   Chris will put up the sponsorship policy for a vote.
*   The team will simplify the honorarium program and remove the additional ask and approval process.
*   Chris will ping Dr. Who again regarding the toponaming position.
*   Joe will reach out to Jitsi directly to negotiate a discount.
*   Brad, Turan, and others will extract the GitHub sponsor list, prepare an email, and send out the survey.

## 6. Next Meeting:
*   **Date:** 24 September 2025
*   **Time:** 1400h UTC
*   **Location:** Jit.si
