# FPA Admin Team Meeting Minutes

1.  Meeting Information:
    *   Date: 3 Sept 2025
    *   Time: 1400h UTC
    *   Location: Jit.si

2.  Agenda Items:
    *   Standing agenda item for position reports
    *   Infrastructure maintenance report
    *   Add-on ecosystem updates
    *   OpenCascade liaison report
    *   Logo and its usage discussions
    *   July finances
    *   Collaboration between FPA, FOSI, Edge of Pyramids
    *   Template for hero images and blog posts
    *   Admin board updates
    *   Bug resolution budget
    *   FTA member assigned for grant affairs
    *   Operating an Ondsel server
    *   Honorarium for maintainers
    *   Direct approach to company donations
    *   Survey questions
    *   Recurring events

3.  Discussion Points:

    *   **Standing Agenda Item for Position Reports:**
        *   Chris Hennes introduced a standing agenda item for position reports.
        *   Kurt Kremitzki (Infrastructure Maintenance Lead) reported on bug tracker redirect issues, Lens server hosting, and forum import to Discourse.
        *   PhoneDroid (Add-on Ecosystem Coordinator) discussed contract status and contacting add-on maintainers.
        *   Pieter Hijma (OpenCascade Liaison) mentioned working on OCCT integration with FreeCAD.
        *   Frank (Add-on Ecosystem Technical Lead) mentioned contract status and a plan shared with Chris and Yorik.
        *   Alexandre (Blog Team) had no immediate updates.
        *   Brad Collette (FPN) provided an update on the FreeCAD Professional Network, including website setup, payment methods, and outreach to Alibre.
    *   **Infrastructure Maintenance Report:**
        *   Kurt is working on monitoring and alerting for the bug tracker redirect.
        *   Kurt is setting up hosting for the Lens server.
        *   Kurt tested an import from the forum to Discourse and plans to set up devtalk.freecad.org.
    *   **Add-on Ecosystem Updates:**
        *   PhoneDroid needs a contract.
        *   Discussion on how long to wait before forking and reassigning add-ons.
        *   Frank also needs a contract.
        *   Frank and PhoneDroid to coordinate roles.
    *   **OpenCascade Liaison Report:**
        *   Pieter is working on OCCT integration.
        *   Discussion about OpenCascade's interest in providing a plugin for file format conversion.
    *   **Logo and Its Usage Discussions:**
        *   Ajinkya Dahale requested information about appropriate logo usage.
        *   Discussion about logo formatting and the availability of different logo versions.
    *   **July Finances:**
        *   Wandererfan reported on July finances.
        *   Discussion about handing off finances to Reqrefusion.
    *   **Collaboration between FPA, FOSSEE, EduPyramids:**
        *   Professor Kanan presented a proposal for student internships contributing to FreeCAD.
        *   Discussion about the benefits of contributing to open source projects.
    *   **Template for Hero Images and Blog Posts:**
        *   Alexandre is still working on this.
    *   **Admin Board Updates:**
        *   Joe (Obelisk) is the newest member of the admin board.
    *   **Bug Resolution Budget:**
        *   The bug bounty program exists but has had no applicants yet.
        *   Discussion on how to drum up interest in the program.
    *   **FTA Member Assigned for Grant Affairs:**
        *   Alexandre is looking into moving the role description.
    *   **Operating an Ondsel Server:**
        *   Kurt is in process on this.
    *   **Honorarium for Maintainers:**
        *   Reqrefusion wrote up alternative language for maintainers.
        *   Discussion about reviewing the document.
    *   **Direct Approach to Company Donations:**
        *   This is now rolled into the FreeCAD Professional Network.
        *   Discussion about government programs and grants.
    *   **Survey Questions:**
        *   Brad and Reqrefusion reviewed survey questions.
    *   **Recurring Events:**
        *   Wanderfan drafted a worksheet for recurring events.

4.  Decisions Made:
    *   Discuss add-on forking at the next developer meeting.
    *   Yorik to set up a meeting with Frank, PhoneDroid, and Chris to discuss the vision for the add-on ecosystem.
    *   Chris Hennes to respond to the email regarding logo usage.
    *   Move the honorarium for maintainers discussion to the next meeting.
    *   Kill agenda items 18, 10, 6, 5 and 4.

5.  Action Items:

    | Task Description                                                                                                | Person Responsible | Deadline             |
    | :-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :----------------- | :------------------- |
    | Yorik to check contract status for PhoneDroid and Frank.                                                       | Yorik             | ASAP                 |
    | Wandererfan and Reqrefusion to coordinate the handoff of financial responsibilities.                             | Wandererfan, Reqrefusion | ASAP                 |
    | Chris Hennes to respond to the email regarding logo usage.                                                      | Chris Hennes       | ASAP                 |
    | Brad and Reqrefusion to finalize survey questions.                                                              | Brad, Reqrefusion  | Next week            |
    | Everyone interested in the honorarium for maintainers to review Reqrefusion's document.                         | All                | Next meeting         |
    | Alex to find the existing description for the FTA member assigned for grant affairs role and move to date. | Alex | ASAP |
    | Yorik to deal with the recurring events worksheet. | Yorik | ASAP |

6.  Next Meeting:
    *   Date: 10 Sept 2025
    *   Time: 1400h UTC
    *   Location Jit.si
