# Meeting Minutes

**1. Meeting Information:**
- Date: 16 July 2025
- Time: 1400h UTC
- Location: Jit.si

**2. Agenda Items:**
- 2026 North American Meetup (FYI)
- Forum Experience Improvement (FPA Allocation)
- Template for Hero Images in Blog Posts
- June Financials
- Stalled Grants
- Funding Request from Adam Spontarelli
- Hiring an Accountant
- FPA Budget for Bug Resolution
- New Infrastructure Maintenance Leader Position
- Grant Relations Officer
- Add-on Manager Manager
- Operating an Ondsel Server
- OCCT Liaison
- FPA Sponsorship of Clubs
- Direct Approach to Company Donations
- Long Term Multi Year Multi Version Roadmap
- Establish the FPN (FreeCAD Professional Network)
- FreeCAD Compilation on ARM
- North American Meetup Budget
- Funding CI Runners
- 2025 Grant Programs
- GSOC 2025
- Ongoing Votes
- User Study Program (added at end of meeting)

**3. Discussion Points:**

*   **2026 North American Meetup:**
    *   Possibility of holding it in Canada.
    *   Coordination already underway.
    *   Interested parties should contact an admin.
*   **Forum Experience Improvement:**
    *   Forum is one of many platforms.
    *   Difficulties with forum moderation.
    *   Concerns about optics of FPA directly paying moderators.
    *   Suggestion to call for volunteers for moderation.
    *   Discussion about potential new forum software (Discourse, Flarum).
    *   Proposal to create a separate developer forum.
    *   Clarification needed on FPA's involvement with the forum.
*   **Template for Hero Images in Blog Posts:**
    *   Alex has a draft and needs to share it with the team.
*   **June Financials:**
    *   Already reviewed; can be removed from the agenda.
*   **Stalled Grants:**
    *   Emails sent to grantees; waiting for a response.
*   **Funding Request from Adam Spontarelli:**
    *   Approved; Adam needs to contact Yorik.
    *   Project is for 2026.
*   **Hiring an Accountant:**
    *   Job offer posted; no responses yet.
    *   Wanderfan's accounting process involves a lot of scripting.
    *   Looking at Belgian associations for accounting services.
*   **FPA Budget for Bug Resolution:**
    *   Joe posted a proposal for a bounty program on the forum.
    *   Ready for a vote.
    *   Discussion about potential abuse of the system.
    *   Suggestion to draft job posts for improving issue management.
*   **New Infrastructure Maintenance Leader Position:**
    *   Funding authorized; need to define the job position.
*   **Grant Relations Officer:**
    *   Reqrefusion is the current officer; item is done.
*   **Add-on Manager Manager:**
    *   Hasecilu disappeared; need to reopen the position.
*   **Operating an Ondsel Server:**
    *   Kurt and Amritpal are discussing setup.
    *   Kurt will set up a cheap droplet.
    *   Brad suggests open communication about the setup process.
    *   Neil Gershenfeld sees this as a key area for FreeCAD.
*   **OCCT Liaison:**
    *   Peter is not present; no discussion.
*   **FPA Sponsorship of Clubs:**
    *   Reqrefusion is traveling; no updates.
*   **Direct Approach to Company Donations:**
    *   Discussion about whether this should be rolled into the FPN.
    *   Concerns about putting the cart before the horse.
    *   Consensus was that this should wait until the FPN leader position is filled
*   **Long Term Multi Year Multi Version Roadmap:**
    *   No longer an FPA matter.
*   **Establish the FPN:**
    *   To-do items on Chris's plate.
*   **FreeCAD Compilation on ARM:**
    *   Chris is close to getting it working.
    *   Microsoft sponsorship.
    *   Hardware will be given to Kurt after compilation is working.
*   **North American Meetup:**
    *   Budget forecasting.
    *   Kurt will make a post with his projection to get the vote started.
*   **Funding CI Runners:**
    *   Kurt and Jackson to meet online to discuss constraints.
*   **2025 Grant Programs:**
    *   All applications approved.
    *   September 1 submission deadline.
*   **GSOC 2025:**
    *   Midterms have opened.
    *   Going well.
*   **Ongoing Votes:**
    *   Everything is closed; new ones coming soon.
*   **Agenda Management:**
    *   Suggestion to add static blocks for open votes and job descriptions.
    *   Discussion about the length of the agenda.
*   **User Study Program:**
    *   Discussion about starting a competition with prizes to get user studies.

**4. Decisions Made:**
- Joe to put up a vote for the bounty program.
- Brad to draft job posts for improving issue management.
- Yorik to send the final notice of cancellation to Hasecilu.
- Chris to repost the Add-on Manager Manager position.
- Hold off on item 11 (Direct Approach to Company Donations) until the FPN is established.
- Kurt to receive the Microsoft hardware after Chris is done with it.
- Kurt to make a post with his projection to get the vote started for the North American Meetup budget.

**5. Action Items:**
- Share hero image template with the team.
    - Person responsible: Alex
- Post job offer to hackerspace.
    - Person responsible: Yorik
- Put up a vote for the bounty program.
    - Person responsible: Joe
- Draft job posts for improving issue management.
    - Person responsible: Brad
- Define the job position for the Infrastructure Maintenance Leader.
    - Person responsible: Chris
- Send the final notice of cancellation to Hasecilu.
    - Person responsible: Yorik
- Repost the Add-on Manager Manager position.
    - Person responsible: Chris
- Meet online to discuss constraints for funding CI runners.
    - Person responsible: Kurt, Jackson
- Make a post with projection to get the vote started for the North American Meetup budget.
    - Person responsible: Kurt
- Add static blocks for open votes and job descriptions to the agenda.
    - Person responsible: Brad
- Add user study program to next week's agenda.
    - Person responsible: Brad

**6. Next Meeting:**
- Date: Wednesday, 23 July 2025
- Time: 1400h UTC
- Location: Jit.si
