# FPA Admin Meeting Minutes 27 August 2025

## 1. Meeting Information:
- Date: 27 August 2025
- Time: 1500h UTC
- Location: Jit.si

## 2. Agenda Items:
- Blender Vitals Collaboration
- July Finances
- Contact GitHub Sponsors
- Recurring Events Consistency
- Grant Post
- Modeling Competition Funding
- Forum Experience Improvement
- Hero Images Template
- Stalled/Not Started Grants
- Accountant Replacement
- Bug Resolution Budgets
- Grant Affairs
- OnSol Server Operation
- Peter's Holding Point
- Maintainer Honorarium
- FreeCAD Professional Network

## 3. Discussion Points:
### Blender Vitals Collaboration
- Chris (@chennes) received a seemingly AI-generated email from Blender Vitals, a Blender training producer, inquiring about collaboration.
- The videos are short and potentially useful for documentation.
- Brad suggested tabling the item and discussing social media strategy.
- Pieter noted the GUI changes too fast for videos.

### July Finances
- The FPA spent more than it brought in, which is the current goal.
- Donation levels have regressed to normal levels after a post-1.0 bump.
- Yorik suggested visualizing an average line on the revenue graph.
- The reserves are sufficient to cover the whole year.
- Chris (@chennes) noted it would be interesting to see if there's a bump at the 1.1 release in October.

### Contact GitHub Sponsors
- Turan (@reqrefusion) has a draft survey for GitHub sponsors.
- Brad suggested shortening the survey.
- Brad offered to provide feedback on the survey draft.
- Brad will use AI to analyze the survey questions.

### Recurring Events Consistency
- WandererFan has a to-do item, but it's not completed.
- This item was tabled until the next meeting.
- 
### Modeling Competition Funding
- The vote passed 100% in favor, funding it at 2,500 euros.
- The next step is to create a job post.
- Chris (@chennes) will put together a job description.

### Forum Experience Improvement
- Kurt will set up a developer-only discourse forum at devtalk.freecad.org.
- It will be explained to devs as an experiment and might be deleted if it's a "train wreck".
- Pieter questioned if this improves the forum experience.
- Chris (@chennes) noted that the goal is to determine if Discourse is viable for the larger community.
- Yorik mentioned the need to funnel discussions back from Discord.

### Hero Images Template
- Alex hasn't completed the template yet.
- The template is for the featured image on top of the blog page.
- Brad wants to piggyback on this item to get a logo for the professional network.
- Alex will loop Brad into the discussion later.

### Stalled/Not Started Grants
- Two grantees have ghosted the FPA, so the money was taken back.
- The money is going back into the grants pool.

### Accountant Replacement
- Reqrefusion is replacing Wanderfan as the accountant.
- Joe Sardos (Obelisk79) has been elected to the admin board.
- Chris (@chennes) will reach out to Joe to determine if the meeting time needs to be rescheduled.
- Yorik will reach out to Joe to get documents and update official documentation.

### Bug Resolution Budgets
- The job description for the Git Bisector is done, and the vote has passed.
- Brad will post the job.
- The draft job description has the word "grant" all over it.
- Obelisk was going to write something up for the FPA website summarizing where the money is going.
- Obelisk is coordinating the bug bounty program.
- Chris (@chennes) will talk to Joe about the next steps for that program.

### Grant Affairs
- PaddleStroke has completed two grants.
- GSoC grants are sending emails for dates.

### Ondsel Server Operation
- Yorik talked with Amritpal and Kurt.
- Amritpal will produce a Docker image for Kurt to use.
- Amritpal has made a new grant proposal.

### Pieter's Holding Point
- Pieter created a video on how to make minimal models.
- People were reacting with more issues to process.

### Maintainer Honorarium
- A vote to authorize 12,000 euros of funding for this program has passed.
- The next step is to figure out what this program is.
- Turan put up a potential piece of text about what this grant might be.
- Chris (@chennes) views this money as targetted at encouraging PR reviews, not development.
- The goal is to target those who do the "boring jobs".
- Weston suggested building automation to do some of this.
- Pieter suggested calling it a reviewer grant instead of a maintainer grant.
- Turan will write some alternative language.

### FreeCAD Professional Network
- Brad is setting up a website and getting the Stripe payment set up.
- Brad is getting the first few members up and running and then starting a broader push.
- Agenda item number five was modified to be FPN notices.

### Addon Ecosystem Coordinator
- PhoneDroid was selected as the add-on ecosystem coordinator.
- A vote is currently in progress to fund another add-on position.

### FPA Funding CI Runners
- Jackson finished his move and can get back to working on this.

### 2025 Grant Program
- The Q3 submission deadline is September 1st.
- An extra 10,000 Euros has been added.

### Open Votes
- All five open votes have passed.

### Introductions
- Weston introduced himself as SchmidtW on the forum and GitHub.
