# FreeCAD Project Association (FPA) admin team meeting

This document summarizes the FreeCAD Project Association (FPA) admin team meeting held on November 26, 2025. The discussion covered a range of topics including add-on development, infrastructure maintenance, Open Cascade liaison, sponsorship, grant tracking, and budget considerations for the upcoming year.

---

## Infrastructure and Open Cascade

The first section of the meeting focused on infrastructure maintenance and Open Cascade liaison activities.

-   **Infrastructure Maintenance:** Kurt Kremitzki reported investigating performance regressions on the wiki and working to update Lens.
-   **Open Cascade Liaison:** Pieter Hijma shared information about contacts with the Open Cascade team, noting shifts in developer locations and activities. There was also a discussion about a potential OCCT fork in China.
-   **Roman Ligon:** Brad Collette offered to introduce Pieter Hijma to Roman Ligon, a former OCCT developer, to gain insights into Open Cascade developments.

---

## Add-on Ecosystem and FPA Initiatives

The discussion shifted to the add-on ecosystem and FPA initiatives.

-   **Add-on Maintenance:** John reported activity from add-on maintainers, including PR merges and the removal of inactive add-ons.
-   **Post-Processor Documentation:** John expressed interest in documenting how post-processors can be added via add-ons.
-   **FreeCAD Professional Network (FPN):** There were no specific updates, but the agenda item was linked to broader discussions on sponsorship and paying contributors.

---

## Sponsorship and Donations

The admin team then discussed sponsorship and how to better manage relationships with sponsors and donors.

-   **Sponsorship Program Evaluation:** Brad Collette initiated a discussion on the need to rethink the sponsorship program, addressing issues such as undefined sponsorship levels and a lack of communication with sponsors.
-   **Communication System:** Yorik suggested prioritizing the establishment of a communication system to thank donors and encourage further donations.
-   **GitHub Sponsors:** Chris Hennes noted that GitHub provides a way to contact sponsors through a user interface.
-   **First Contact Email:** Alex volunteered to draft an initial email to current sponsors, expressing gratitude and promising future updates.
- Turan also mentioned that He thinks this is best solution for donate button, donate system
-   **Donation vs Sponsorship:** There was a conceptual discussion on the differences between donations and sponsorships, with the consensus that sponsorships imply public recognition.
-   **Anonymity:** Chris Hennes raised the idea that donors might expect a higher level of privacy compared to sponsors.
-   **Specific Cause Donations:** John suggested allowing donors to contribute to specific FreeCAD projects or features.

---

## Grant Tracking and Budget

The final part of the meeting covered grant tracking and budget considerations for the upcoming year.

-   **Grant Tracking Project:** Turan presented the FPA grant tracking project on GitHub, providing a transparent overview of grant compositions and payments.
-   **Budget Overview:** Yorik initiated a discussion on budget, that the budget that was projected was 200,000 euros but they earned 150,000 so that is roughly 50,000 over budget.
-   **Potential Budget Adjustments:** Chris Hennes suggested reducing funding for the grant program and reconsidering unfilled positions to balance the budget.

---

## Action Items and Decisions

The meeting concluded with several action items and decisions:

-   Alex will draft a first contact email to current sponsors.
-   Brad Collette will adapt his CMS to extract donor data.
-   Yorik and Chris Hennes will draft reports on initiatives.
-   John will create a readme and PR template for the assets repository.
-   The team agreed to revisit the budget in the middle of the next year.
-   FPA members should vote on the renewal of Yorik's term as an FDA board member and chairperson.
