# FreeCAD Project Association (FPA) Admin Team Meeting Minutes

## 1. Meeting Information:

- **Date:** 2 April 2025
- **Time:** 1600h CEST
- **Location:** Online (Jitsi)
- **Attendees:**
    - chennes  
    - wandererfan
    - yorik
    - Alex
    - sliptonic
    - reqrefusion
    - oursland

## 2. Agenda Items:

- Question regarding bounties and grants
- Live streaming FreeCAD Day
- Dedicated budget for KiCAD integration
- Meeting rescheduling
- Jackson's ongoing work
- Grant voting and process discussion
- February financials
- Joint events with KiCAD
- Outreach to companies for unfunded grant proposals
- Cadwarden Group bounties budget
- 2025 grant program Q1 review
- GSOC 2025
- Metrics, statistics, and telemetry
- Long-term roadmap
- Ongoing and recent votes
- Developer forum testing server
- Finances discussion with Eclipse
- North American meetup planning
- Lens documentation repository

## 3. Discussion Points:

### Bounties and Grants:

- Clarification sought on whether receiving a bounty precludes receiving a grant for the same work.
- Consensus that the grant would subsume the bounty.
- If more money is needed than the bounty offers, a grant can be requested instead.

### Live Streaming FreeCAD Day:

- An individual (Varden Gulkanian) offered to help with live streaming.
- Concerns raised about cost, technical complexity, and impact on the unconference format.
- yorik agreed to contact the individual to gather more information.

### Dedicated Budget for KiCAD Integration:

- reqrefusion suggested a dedicated budget for KiCAD integration grants.
- Discussion about whether this is necessary, given existing ecosystem project grants.
- Suggestion to reach out to KiCAD to explore joint projects or funding.

### Grant Voting and Process Discussion:

- Discussion about the low amount of grant money allocated in Q1.
- Consideration of alternative voting processes, such as ranked choice.
- Concern over the technical review committee's focus on cost rather than technical merit.
- Discussion about Pierre's grant proposals and the perception of the FPA funding full-time work.
- Agreement that someone should reach out to Pierre to discuss proposal structuring.

### GSOC 2025:

- Several potential GSOC contributors have shown interest and activity.
- chennes has invited them to the upcoming Sunday meeting.
- Discussion about the application process and ranking of proposals.

### Metrics, Statistics, and Telemetry:

- Telemetry add-on is being advertised and initial installations are happening.
- Discussion about further advertising strategies and community reception.

### North American Meetup Planning:

- Discussion about whether to hold another North American meetup.
- Kurt's availability is a factor, but Springfield remains a potential location.
- Agreement to add it as a recurring agenda item.


## 4. Decisions Made:

- Grant subsumes bounty if both are awarded for the same work.
- Yorik will contact Varden Gulkanian to discuss live streaming FreeCAD Day.
- chennes will close the vote for Ajinkya's travel funding at $600.
- sliptonic will talk to Pierre about grant proposal structuring.
- North American meetup planning will be a recurring agenda item.

## 5. Action Items:

- **Task:** Contact Varden Gulkanian about live streaming.
- **Responsible:** Yorik

- **Task:** Close vote for Ajinkia's travel funding.
- **Responsible:** chennes

- **Task:** Talk to Pierre about grant proposals.
- **Responsible:** sliptonic

- **Task:** Investigate website analytics.
- **Responsible:** chennes

- **Task:** Create FreeCAD repository for Lens documentation.
- **Responsible:** chennes and Alex

- **Task:** Review reqrefusion's draft contact email.
- **Responsible:** All attendees

- **Task:** Set up next meeting with KiCAD.
- **Responsible:** Brad

- **Task:** Continue working on long-term roadmap discussion topic.
- **Responsible:** Pieter

- **Task:** Contact Kurt about North American meetup.
- **Responsible:** chennes
- 
- **Task:** Create testing server for developer forum.
- **Responsible:** chennes and obelisk

- **Task:** Follow up with Eclipse regarding finances.
- **Responsible:** yorik


## 6. Next Meeting:

- Regular Wednesday meetings will continue, 15 minutes earlier than previously and scheduled in Central European Time.
