# FreeCAD FPA Meeting Minutes

## 1. Meeting Information:

- **Date:** 26 March 2025
- **Location:** Jit.si
- **Attendees:** chennes, wandererfan, Alex, Yorik, Pieter, sliptonic, oursland

## 2. Agenda Items:

- Last week's meeting minutes
- Yorick's absence
- Reschedule this meeting
- Correspondence with Officina Robotica
- Funding CI runners
- Voting for grants
- February financials
- Joint events with KiCAD
- Direct approach to company donations
- GDPR compliance
- CAD Working Group bounties
- Grant program voting
- Google Summer of Code
- Metrics, stats, and telemetry
- Long-term roadmap
- Discourse test server

## 3. Discussion Points:

### Last Week's Meeting Minutes

- Minutes were not posted due to an oversight. Action item created to post them.

### Reschedule this Meeting

- Current time doesn't work well for Brad due to a local group meeting.
- Yorik's frequent absences also noted.
- Discussion on alternative times (Monday, Tuesday, Thursday).
- Tentative agreement to move to Thursday at 9:00 am Central European Time.
- Yorick cannot make the Thursday slot, so the rescheduling is unresolved.
- Proposal to hold the meeting on Wednesday at 1400h CET for now (a technical change from 9:00am US Central time, to eliminate project-wide differences in timezone during the time that Europe and North America don't match on Summer Time/Daylight Saving Time).

### Correspondence with OficinaRobotica

- Payment for a video has been requested and is being processed.
- PayPal account issues appear resolved.

### Funding CI Runners

- Jackson presented a report on the cost of self-hosting CI runners (~$800/month).
- Further investigation planned for adding capability and on-prem deployment.
- Discussion about storage needs and potential future migration from GitHub.

### Voting for Grants

- Voting is in progress, with one member yet to vote.
- Preliminary results suggest ~â‚¬14,000 will be approved, under budget.
- Plan to close the vote on the 31st.

### February Financials/Open Collective

- Proposal to encourage grant recipients to use Open Collective for payments.
- Discussion about currency conversion and practicality.
- Agreement to ask recipients about Open Collective preference when requesting funds.

### Joint Events with KiCAD

- Brad will set up a meeting (action item).

### Direct Approach to Company Donations

- Analysis presented suggesting the FreeCAD website is valuable and could attract sponsors.
- Discussion about targeting 3D printer manufacturers for silver/gold sponsorships.
- Agreement to draft an outreach email for review before contacting companies.
- Discussion about obtaining website analytics.

### GDPR Compliance

- Handbook page created and merged, appointing Yorik as data protection officer.
- Data retention policies discussed.

### CAD Working Group Bounties

- Group is finalizing a list of bounties for approval.
- Plan to vote on the package as a whole.

### Grant Program Voting

- Same deadline as general grant voting (31st).

### Google Summer of Code

- Submissions are open.
- Google recommends conducting interviews with potential candidates.
- Discussion about feasibility given the number of applicants.
- Suggestion to encourage applicants to attend developer meetings.

### Metrics, Stats, and Telemetry

- Telemetry Workbench ready for publicity.
- Discussion about advertising the telemetry add-on.
- Discussion about a curated list of recommended add-ons.

### Long-Term Roadmap

- kadet1090 is working on the RFC process.
- Discussion about the appropriate venue for the 10-year plan discussion (Discord vs. forum).
- Pieter to provide an update next week.
- Brief discussion about Neil Gershenfeld's interest in model collaboration and rendering.

### Discourse Test Server

- Work in progress to set up a test server for developer discussions.

## 4. Decisions Made:

- Move meeting to Thursday at 9:00 am CET (later rescinded).
- Close grant voting on the 31st.
- Ask grant recipients about Open Collective preference.
- Draft an outreach email for sponsors.
- Publicize the Telemetry Workbench.
- Fund Eugenia's travel grant at the minimum level.

## 5. Action Items:

- **Post last week's meeting minutes:** chennes
- **Set up meeting with KiCAD:** sliptonic
- **Draft outreach email for sponsors:** reqrefusion
- **Investigate website analytics:** chennes
- **Set up Discourse test server:** chennes and obelisk
- **Close votes 2, 3, and Eugenia travel grant:** chennes
- **Provide update on 10-year plan:** pieter


## 6. Next Meeting:

- Likely Wednesday at 9:00 am (near current time), but subject to change.
