# FreeCAD Project Association Admin Team Meeting Minutes

1. Meeting Information:
   - Date: December 17th, 2025
   - Time: 1500 hours UTC
   - Location: Jit.si

## Agenda Items
- Reports from various positions
- FYI's from financial officer
- Part-time developer positions
- Doubling the bounty for blockers
- Adrian's bus factor
- Demo of the FEM Electromagnetics for the release video
- Proposed change to the grant program
- Revisiting the sponsorship donation FDN programs
- Assets repo
- FY 2026 budgets
- Jitsi hosting options
- Next real-world meetup

## Discussion Points

### Reports from Various Positions
- **John (Add-on Manager):** Communicating with a new add-on author for the Solo Workbench and helped fix issues. Noted the lack of testing in add-ons. Suggested encouraging testing before add-ons are released.
- Discussed the possibility of a FreeCAD testing working group. Suggested including add-ons in the testing initiative. Recommended mtronic on the forum/Discord as a potential add-on developer.
- **Frank (Add-on Ecosystem Technical Lead):** Enhancing analysis reports with GitHub metrics. Paused due to potential blocking by GitHub API. Raised the need to decide on the add-ons API, including the possibility of QML-based APIs. Suggested contributing FPC API to FreeCAD.
- **Peter (Open Cascade Liaison):** Attended an NLNet meeting on using AI. Wants to invite Dimitri to a meeting, possibly the FPA meeting, to discuss Open Cascade's involvement with FreeCAD. Suggested waiting until meeting in person at FOSDOM to discuss further.
- **Brad (FreeCAD Professional Network):** Working on a CMS to thank donors, but is concerned about privacy and security. Requested guidance on collecting and maintaining donor information.

### FYI's from Financial Officer (Yorik)
- Access to the bank account is still in process.
- Turan needs access to the encrypted folder. The folder contains accounting data and website passwords.
- Discussed how to handle Turan's access since they are not an FPA admin. The current system doesn't allow for different access levels.
- Suggested removing passwords and website credentials from the encrypted folder. Discussed using a password manager.
- Agreed to investigate alternative solutions for storing passwords and credentials. Suggested Bitwarden or 1Password.

### Part-Time Developer Positions (Turan)
- Suggests making it easier to pay PaddleStroke and others with part-time positions.
- Discussed streamlining the process of grant requests and approvals for PaddleStroke, who regularly submits multiple time-commitment grant requests, which isn't a great use of his time or the FPA's.
- Discussed how to quantify the value of contribution and determine compensation, with the conclusion that it is effectively impossible, and probably devisive.
- Suggested focusing on tasks that people don't want to work on.
- Agreed to start trimming the grant budget and allocate money towards fixed positions.
- Overall feeling was that the FPA should emphasize paying people to work on projects that no one else wants to do and that make development of FreeCAD more fun, rather than paying for basic development, which has historically been done by volunteers.

### Doubling the Bounty for Blockers
- Turan mentioned that postponing the release costs potential donations.
- Discussed the potential impact of doubling the bounty.
- Proposed and approved to move forward with doubling the bounty for things that are marked as blockers.

### Adrian's Bus Factor
- Discussed the risk of key information being undocumented if something happens to Adrian.
- Agreed that documentation should be part of Adrian's responsibilities.
- Noted that the CI/build system is becoming more self-documenting. Decided to end the discussion on this agenda item.

### Demo of the FEM Electromagnetics for the Release Video
- Waiting for someone to set up a demo. This is not blocking the release.
- Chris added extra content to the release video, such as a quick scroll through the wiki release notes. This item was removed from the agenda.

### Proposed Change to the Grant Program
- Proposed reducing the budget from 60,000 to 40,000 euros.
- Proposed limiting grants to one per developer per quarter.
- Agreed to codify these changes.
  
### Revisiting the Sponsorship Donation FPN Programs
- Brad is working on a CRM to consolidate data. He needs access to PayPal to pull CSV extracts.
- Yorik to provide Brad with access.

### Assets Repo
- Need to define "assets". This item was tabled.

### FY 2026 Budgets
- Will have a budget.
- Will have mandatory e-invoices.
- Discussed applicant for issue bisector role and whether it's worth the cost. Agreed to offer Chris Jones (ipatch) the role for one year and then revisit.
- Yorik will write up the budget for the year end report.

### Jitsi Hosting Options
- Obelisk had to leave the meeting early, so this was not discussed further.

### Next Real-World Meetup: FreeCAD Day and FOSDEM'26
- Back at Atelier de Tanneurs (same location as previous events)
- Discussed T-shirts, pencils, and stickers.
- Brad would like a sticker with the year on it.
- Chris Rogers volunteered to design new stickers.

## Decisions Made
- Double the bounty for blockers.
- Offer the issue bisector role to Chris for one year, then revisit.
- Reduce grant budget to 40,000 euros and limit to one per developer per quarter.
- Chris Jones will design new stickers and t-shirt mock-ups for the next real-world meetup.
- Cancel next week's meeting due to Christmas.
