# Meeting Minutes: FPA Admins Meeting

## 1. Meeting Information:
*   **Date:** Wednesday, 25 June 2025
*   **Time:** 1400h UTC
*   **Location:** Jit.si

## 2. Agenda Items:
*   Official retirement appreciation for WandererFan
*   Proposal from reqrefusion about having an issue meeting and assigning bounties
*   Infrastructure maintenance leader position
*   Remove link to LiberaPay from FTA website
*   Forums discussion about Werner
*   Grant application activity timeframe
*   Contract renewal for Alex
*   Operating an Ondsel Lens server
*   Donation to the anti-AI software
*   Honorarium for maintainers
*   Establish the FreeCAD professional network
*   Microsoft laptop crediting
*   North American meetup
*   FBA funding CI runners
*   2025 grant program

## 3. Discussion Points:

### Official Retirement Appreciation for WandererFan
*   Discussed publishing an official message of appreciation.
*   Discussed where to post the formal thank you (blog post suggested).
*   TODO: Alex will write a post

### Proposal from reqrefusion About Having an Issue Meeting and Assigning Bounties
*   Discussed allocating time for issue meetings.
*   Considered assigning bounties to issues.
*   Discussed the possibility of a maintainer's pool.
*   Proposed a pilot program for bug rewards.
*   Discussed allocating a budget for bug bounties.
*   Addressed concerns about potential abuse of the bounty system.
*   Discussed the need for clear criteria for allocating bounties.
*   TODO: Joe Sardos will create a formal proposal

### Infrastructure Maintenance Leader Position
*   Discussed the open vote for the position.
*   Considered adding the creation of the Lens server to the position's responsibilities. Decided against this proposal pending a response from Amritpal about whether he is willing to stand up a demo server.
*   Discussed the need for someone to handle infrastructure emergencies.
*   Addressed the scope of the position and the need for trust.
*   Discussed the frequency of reports from the position.

### Remove Link to LiberaPay from FPA Website
*   Confirmed the link has been removed from the FPA website.
*   Discussed whether to remove the link from GitHub repos.
*   Explained the structure and management of the LiberaPay team.
*   Addressed the need to align donor expectations with reality.
*   Discussed the limitations of LiberaPay's team structure.
*   Identified specific repositories with LiberaPay links.
*   Addressed the question of whether the link *should* be removed.
*   TODO: No action item yet, the LiberaPay team members are discussing what should be done with the group.

### Forums Discussion About Werner
*   Discussed the purpose of the forums discussion.
*   Acknowledged the need for input from Yorik, who is in conversation with Werner.
*   Recognized the circular nature of the current forums conversation.

### Grant Application Activity Timeframe
*   Discussed the timeframe for grantees to undertake activity or contact the FPA.
*   Proposed a 90-day limit instead of the originally-suggested 180 days.
*   Clarified that the language would go in the agreement with the grantee.
*   Discussed forming a Grant Relations Officer position. A motion to make @reqrefusion the Grant Relations Officer passed.

### Contract Renewal for Alex
*   Confirmed the vote for the contract renewal has passed.

### Operating an Ondsel Lens Server
*   Yorik reached out to Amarpal.
*   Discussed the legal considerations of operating a Lens server.
*   Addressed the need for governance policies.
*   Discussed the potential for strategic development of Lens.
*   Proposed a demo server for testing purposes.
*   Emphasized encouraging self-hosting.

### Donation to the Anti-AI Software
*   Confirmed the vote has passed.
*   Discussed the process of making the donation via GitHub sponsors.

### Honorarium for Maintainers
*   Holding pattern pending Yorik hearing back from Werner.
*   Discussed the number and activity levels of maintainers.

### Establish the FreeCAD Professional Network
*   Brad to clean up the agenda item and rewrite it as a job description.
*   Discussed opening it up as an open call: it was agreed this was the best path forward.

### Microsoft Laptop Crediting
*   Awaiting a response from Microsoft regarding crediting them for the donation of an ARM-based Windows laptop

### North American Meetup
*   Alex wrote a blog post, awaiting review from Kurt.
*   Discussed the need for more advertising resources.

### FPA Funding CI Runners
*   Work in progress, Jackson to dedicate more time.

### 2025 Grant Program
*   The committee has a recommendation.
*   Discussed the three buckets of grants.
*   Discussed emphasizing bug fixes for certain grants.
*   Addressed a grant that the committee couldn't evaluate.

## 6. Next Meeting:
*   **Date:** Wednesday, 2 July 2025
*   **Time:** 1400h UTC
*   **Location:** Jit.si
