# Meeting Minutes

## Meeting Information
*   Date: December 3rd, 2025
*   Time: 3:00 PM UTC
*   Location: Jitsi

---

## Agenda Items
*   Reports from various team members
*   Chris Rogers assistance request
*   Changes to the grant program
*   Sponsorship donation FPN programs
*   FPA initiatives top four
*   Assets recall

---

## Discussion Points

### Reports from various team members
*   **Infrastructure maintenance lead (Kurt):** Nothing to report.
*   **Open Cascade liaison (Peter):** Nothing to report.
*   **Add-on ecosystem coordinator (John):** Absent due to a GitHub account issue.
    *   The account disappeared unexpectedly.
*   **Add-on ecosystem technical lead (Frank):** The ecosystem is quiet, likely due to the upcoming 1.1 release.
    *   Frank inquired about strategic meetings for long-term planning, such as API development for add-ons and QML support.
    *   Discussion on using FreeCAD Enhancement Proposals (FEPs) for major changes.
    *   Peter mentioned an enhancement proposal on group structure, including task forces.
    *   Chris suggested FreeCAD Enhancement Proposal 8 addresses this.
*   **FreeCAD Professional Network (Brad):** Initial CMS work, nothing concrete to report.
*   **Blog (Alex):** No updates. The blog is now being paid for by the FPA credit card directly instead of by reimbursing Chris.

---

### Chris Rogers Assistance Request
*   Chris needs help with the electromagnetic demonstration for the release video.
*   Open to screen sharing or alternative demonstrations.
*   Suggestion to post on the forum, specifically in the FEM section, to seek assistance.
*   Recommended users to contact: NewJoker or FEM-ENG.
*   Suggestion to use Discord.

---

### Changes to the Grant Program
*   Review of the 2025 grant program (excluding Q4).
*   75% of grant requests were funded, indicating a lack of selection pressure.
*   The program effectively distributed funds to 21 different people.
*   The program hasn't effectively targeted specific work, such as bug fixing or feature development.
*   Proposed modifications include reducing the grant budget to 40,000 euros.
*   The grant review committee has been relatively inactive, and FPA members don't seem to value their input.
*   Recommendation to eliminate the committee and target funding more concretely.
*   Discussion about overfunding of Paddle: his work is probably outside the scope of the grant program. Need a new avenue for funding him.
*   Need for a mechanism to measure the deliverables' quality from grants, instead of just that something was produced.
*   Limited FPA resources hinder comprehensive grant oversight.
*   Everything is open and verifiable, but it does take some due diligence to verify what people have done.
*   Frank suggests some summary for each of the items to make it easier to measure.
*   It's suggested Frank look at the dashboard Turan put together.
*   Suggestion from Iknerik to set a goal to give the grant program more direction.
*   Narrowing the focus would be a good idea.
*   Discussion regarding how specific to make goals.
*   Discussion of community input and transparency.

---

### Sponsorship Donation FPN Programs
*   Brad to send Alex the contact draft email.
*   Alex to massage it into a new draft email.
*   Brad to continue working on the CMS.
*   Alex hasn't drafted the first contact email yet.

---

### FPA Initiatives Top Four
*   The group needs to determine what the FPA's top four initiatives should be.
*   Discussion of a balance between FPA goals and FreeCAD application goals.
*   Question of having two separate sets of goals.
*   Frank notes they are already late to be discussing the focus for 2026.
*   Historically, these decisions align with the annual budget.
*   Proposal to draft a list of specific, fundable items and seek community input.
*   Discussion of prior year's top four and Yorik's position that it was too abstract.
*   Discussion on if bug fixing has to be said as it should just be obvious.
*   Concern that the FPA should not be "too heavy handed in steering the technical direction of the project".
*   Community input is a must to avoid appearing to strong-arm development.
*   The donor's intent should be considered, whether it's a "thank you" or "forward-looking" donation.
*   The discussion on the top four will be tabled until next week's meeting.

---

### Assets Recall
*   Definition and scope of the asset repository under discussion.
*   Need for criteria for acceptance and rejection of assets.
*   John suggested the scope be for convenience in decentralizing assets.
*   Concern over the lack of a licensing policy on the forum for contributed assets.
*   Recommendation for explicit licensing terms for submitted assets.
*   Proposal for a curated FreeCAD "awesome" list linking to existing projects.

---

## Next Meeting
*   Date: December 10th, 2025
*   Time: 3:00 PM UTC
*   Location: Jitsi
