# FPA Admin Meeting Minutes

## 1. Meeting Information:
*   **Date:** 2025-09-24
*   **Time:** 1400h UTC
*   **Location:** Jit.si

## 2. Agenda Items:
*   Item 16: (Standing) Updates from various roles
*   Item 15: August Finances Report
*   Item 14: Translation Manager Role
*   Item 13: FOSDEM DevRoom
*   Item 12: Vote on sponsorship policy
*   Item 11: Honorarium for Maintainers
*   Item 10: Position about Topo Naming
*   Item 9: Jitsi Hosting Options
*   Item 8: Next Real-World Meetup (FOSDEM)
*   Item 7: Funding a Modeling Competition
*   Item 6: Setting up Test Discourse
*   Item 5: Template for Hero Images and Blog Posts
*   Item 4: Operating an Ondsel Server
*   Item 3: FPA Funding CI Runners
*   Item 2: 2025 Grant Program
*   Item 1: Yorik - Finances

## 3. Discussion Points:

### Standing Item 16A: Infrastructure Maintenance Lead (Kurt)
*   Kurt was sick most of the week and didn't have much to update.
*   The wiki storage nearly filled up due to a copy-on-write file system, making it difficult to free space.
*   There is no monitoring solution to prevent this issue.

### Standing Item 16B: OpenCASCADE Liaison (Pieter)
*   Pieter worked on a regression and submitted it to OCC.
*   He inspected various other issues.
*   Pieter plans to reach out to Dimitri for FOSDEM and Brad for the professional network.
*   Discussed a strategy for submitting bug reports to avoid overwhelming the OpenCASCADE team.
*   Fixes to OpenCASCADE will take time to propagate.

### Standing Item 16C: Add-on Ecosystem Coordinator (PhoneDroid)
*   People seem too trusting and don't verify PhoneDroid's identity.
*   Suggested an official FPA page to verify emails.
*   Discussed the importance of merit-based contributions in open source.
*   The FPA needs a more public-facing list of people being paid and their roles.
*   There is another abandoned add-on.
*   The Pyramids and Polyhedrons add-on is almost cleaned up.
*   Question about testing the Pyramids and Polyhedrons add-on before changing the element catalogs entry.
*   PhoneDroid will be the maintainer for the FreeCAD Workbench Starter Kit.
*   Discussion about whether accepting the maintainership is an FPA question.

### Standing Item 16D: Ecosystem Technical Lead (Frank)
*   Updating documentation of the API to develop add-ons, specifically Python APIs.
*   Working with Joao on the FreeCAD stubs project.
*   The API is specified in Python PYI files and used to generate C++ steps.
*   Created a process to check and fix issues in the PYI files.
*   Modernizing and reformatting the files, fixing doc strings, and adding Google doc string format.
*   Fixing missing signatures.
*   Working on regenerating and fixing the PYI files.
*   Goal is to generate C++, stubs, automatic API documentation, and API diffs for each release.
*   Also included the Python APIs that are actually Python files in the FreeCAD source.

### Standing Item 16E: FreeCAD Professional Network (Brad)
*   Dividing time between FPN and the CAM workbench.
*   Conversation with Morgan, who is working on KiConnect.
*   Encouraged Morgan to pursue grant money.
*   Made Morgan aware of the ecosystem coordination.
*   Trying to get Morgan to come to FOSDEM and FreeCAD Day.
*   KiConnect is a high-priority add-on.
*   Discussed an MQTT messaging layer.

### Standing Item 16F: Accounting Transition
*   Reqrefusion reported that the accounting transition from wandererfan to him is going well.

### Standing Item 16G: Reports from Others
*   Sofia is leaving the translatable text reviewer role.
*   Alex reported that Jo wrote a blog post that needs to be rewritten and posted.
*   Alex is working on posting a huge mesh article on the Wiki.

### Item 15: August Finances Report
*   Income is higher than in previous months and years.
*   Spending was minimal, plus North America meetup and mailbox costs.
*   Digital Ocean hosting is now paid automatically via PayPal monthly.

### Item 14: Translation Manager Role
*   Sofia is leaving the translation manager role.
*   Yorik suggests forming a community group first before hiring a new person.
*   Discussion about reaching out to LuzPaz to coordinate translation efforts.
*   Need to integrate the translation team more closely with the developer team.
*   Assembly tooltips are not translatable.
*   Crowdin has a discussion platform that is not used.

### Item 13: FOSDEM DevRoom
*   Submitted a DevRoom proposal for FOSDEM.
*   Need people to review talk submissions and be present in the DevRoom.
*   Need people to man the FreeCAD table outside the DevRoom.
*   KiCAD people want to have a table with FreeCAD.
*   Discussion about multi-posting across platforms.

### Item 12: Vote on Formalizing sponsorship policy
*   A vote needs to be made by chennes, but it was not done due to being busy with grants.

### Item 11: Honorarium for Maintainers
*   Reqrefusion tweaked the language.
*   The new language is good and ready for a vote.

### Item 10: Position about Topo Naming
*   Reached out to Doctor Who, who is not interested in funding himself but suggests others might be.
*   Need to find someone from the developer community interested in working on topo naming.
*   The first few paychecks should be for learning the system.
*   chennes will reach out to specific individuals to see if they are interested.

### Item 9: Jitsi Hosting Options
*   Joe reached out to Jitsi as a service for information.
*   Waiting for a response.
*   Will double-check for other services hosting professional Jitsi.

### Item 8: Next Real-World Meetup (FOSDEM)
*   FOSDEM is January 31 and Feb 1, 2026.
*   FreeCAD Day will be on the 30th.
*   Discussed costs for the room and catering.
*   Will do a call for talks for FreeCAD Day.
*   Suggestion to have a joint opening with KiCAD.

### Item 7: Funding a Modeling Competition
*   Job description created and needs review.
*   chennes will post the job

### Item 6: Setting up Test Discourse
*   Kurt is working on setting up the test Discourse server at devtalk.freecad.org.

### Item 5: Template for Hero Images and Blog Posts
*   Waiting for response from Discord.

### Item 4: Operating an Ondsel Server
*   Kurt is going to stand up a public server.

### Item 3: FPA Funding CI Runners
*   Still have an open contract with Oursland for a report.

### Item 2: 2025 Grant Program
*   Voting is open.
*   Discussion about the future of the grant program.
*   Not getting enough competition.
*   The grant program is not accomplishing its goal of encouraging the kind of development they want.
*   Discussion about the bug bounty program.
*   One payout has been made, and another is pending.

### Item 1: Yorik - Finances
*   Yorick is working on finding an attorney to discuss our grant structure with.
*   Waiting to find the right person who knows about open-source finances.
*   Will reach out to Francesco from Blender.
*   Agenda item removed.

## 6. Next Meeting:
*   **Date:** 1 October 2025
*   **Time:** 1400h UTC
*   **Location:** Jit.si
