# FPA Admin Team Meeting 2025-11-19

## Reports from FPA-Sponsored Positions

## Add-On Ecosystem Coordinator

John (@PhoneDroid) raises questions about the scope of the FPA's influence on add-on development, particularly concerning licensing and whether his personal projects related to add-ons must be open source. Chris Hennes (@chennes) clarifies that the intent is not to mandate open-sourcing everything but to ensure community comfort with actions taken under the FPA's sponsorship. Yorik emphasizes the community's role in decision-making for the FreeCAD ecosystem, with the FPA aiming to facilitate community goals.

John voices concerns about being held responsible for what reflects on the FPA. Yorik notes the need for clear communication about projects that are not open source to avoid misunderstandings.

### Concerns About AI in Add-Ons

John raises concerns about the quality and licensing of AI-generated content in add-ons. Frank notes the general sentiment of letting add-on developers use the techniques they want. Yorik emphasizes the importance of a healthy add-on ecosystem with a lot of activity and experimentation, with a focus for end users to find high-quality add-ons.

Chris Rogers raises two problems about the use of AI, one being the licensing of the code, and AI increasing the attack surface. The team agrees to voicing these concerns but points out that this is not FPA business, but rather something to discuss in a developer meeting. Frank makes the final point that add-ons are not part of FreeCAD but are user content.

## Addon Ecosystem Technical Lead

Frank explains several of the projects he is working on

## Financial Report and Budget Discussion

Recrefusion presents the financial report, noting significant spending in October due to PR and a grant. The team discusses planned spending and the importance of releasing a version to generate donations. The necessity of transferring money to a savings account is also brought up: the large expected October spending was due to a planned transfer of 10,000 Euros into a long-term savings fund, which has not yet occurred.

## Certificate Headaches

Chris H. explains some signing certificate challenges. The Apple certificate requires Yorik to approve, being based in Belgium, where the FPA is incorporated. The Windows signing certifcate is a physical token in Adrian's possession, which means that all Windows installer construction falls on Adrian and blocks on his availability to sign them. This certificate needs to be converted to a digital one and integrated with FreeCAD's CI. Discussion of signing and Linux distributions, but with no central authority to verify signatures the situation on Linux is unclear, with no particular advantage to signing anything.


## Video Production and Release Planning

Chris Rogers provides an update on the upcoming video, mentioning new features and improvements. He expresses excitement about including new widgets for padding and seeks clarification on their availability in the release. Chris also reports issues with the Ubuntu snap and offers assistance in testing. The team confirms there is no tentative release date yet.


## Other Business and Action Items

- **Asset Model Curator Position**: Brad proposes creating a paid position for asset model curation.
- **2026 Budget**: Discussions on the 2026 budget include proposed increases for Alex and Max.
- **Issue Bisector Role**: The team revisits the issue bisector role with potential new interest.
- **FOSDEM and FreeCAD Day**: Hackathon still waiting final confirmation from HSBXL, who just announced their traditional Saturday night after-party so may be ready to finalize our visit.
- **DevTalk Forum**: Needs testers, including someone to "cause trouble" so that the moderation system can be evaluated. That system is a central component of why Discourse is being considered in the first place.
- **Action Items**:
    - Turan to schedule a meeting with Brad, Chris, Joe, and Yorik to discuss and select candidates for the modeling competition.
    - The team to review the budget and provide feedback.
