# FreeCAD Project Meeting Minutes

## 1. Meeting Information:

- **Date:** March 19th 2025
- **Location:** Jit.si
- **Attendees:** chennes, wandererfan, Alex, Pieter, oursland, Yorik, sliptonic, obelisk, other participants

## 2. Agenda Items:

- Correspondence (RFPs, PayPal account)
- FPA Funding CI Runners
- List Voting for Grants
- February Financials
- Joint Events with KeyCAD
- Direct Approach to Company Donations
- GDPR Compliance
- FPA Grant Vote Deadline
- GSOC
- Metrics and Telemetry
- Long Term Roadmap
- FPA Initiatives Top Four
- Ongoing Votes
- Fund a Developer Forum
- Finances

## 3. Discussion Points:

### Correspondence

* **RFP from OficinaRobotica:** Discussed payment for a trailer video created by OficinaRobotica. Confirmed that a vote had passed to approve the budget for this. Decision made to pay the creator.
* **PayPal Account Limitations:** PayPal account has been further limited. Discussed the need for wandererfan's credentials to potentially unblock the account. He confirmed he would provide information if needed.

### FPA Funding CI Runners

* **Cost Estimates:** Jackson presented cost estimates for cloud-based CI runners (Azure, AWS, Google) and MacStadium, ranging from $900-$1500/month.
* **Mac Build Performance:** Discussion about slow Mac builds and potential improvements with M4 processors.
* **Self-Hosting Options:** Explored self-hosting options, including purchasing hardware and using on-demand solutions like GitHub Actions and auto-scaling.
* **Data Center Location:** Question raised about where to install self-hosted hardware.

### List Voting for Grants

* **Grant Review and Voting:** Grant review committee met and produced a list of grants for approval voting.
* **Budget Concerns:** Discussion about potential over-budget scenarios and the need for a secondary vote.

### Direct Approach to Company Donations

* **Leveraging Unfunded Grants:** Discussion about approaching companies for donations after the grant voting concludes, highlighting unfunded grants as potential sponsorship opportunities.
* **Value Beyond Dollars:** Emphasized the importance of seeking corporate sponsorships that offer value beyond just financial contributions, such as expertise, engineering talent, and industry insights.
* **OpenCascade Partnership:** Pieter suggested using OpenCascade's willingness to contribute as a starting point for corporate engagement.
* **Community Concerns:** Concerns raised about potential negative community reactions to corporate partnerships.

### Fund a Developer Forum

* **Forum Infrastructure Issues:** Discussed ongoing problems with the current forum and the possibility of testing Discourse.
* **Cost and Hosting:** Explored hosting options and costs for a Discourse instance. Joe offered to provide free hosting for testing purposes.
* **Testing and Migration:** Discussed a phased approach to testing Discourse, starting with developers and potentially migrating data from the old forum.

## 4. Decisions Made:

- Pay OficinaRobotica for the trailer video.
- wandererfan to provide credentials if needed to resolve PayPal account limitations.
- Joe to provide free hosting for a Discourse forum test instance.

## 5. Action Items:

- **Task:** Create an issue and pay OficinaRobotica.
    - **Responsible:** wandererfan
- **Task:** Provide PayPal credentials if needed.
    - **Responsible:** wandererfan
- **Task:** Research self-hosting options for CI runners and present detailed approaches.
    - **Responsible:** Jackson
- **Task:** FPA members to vote on grants.
    - **Responsible:** All FPA members
    - **Deadline:** March 31st
- **Task:** Test telemetry in FreeCAD 1.0.
    - **Responsible:** chennes
- **Task:** Start a forum thread titled "What should FreeCAD look like in 10 years?" or similar.
    - **Responsible:** Pieter
- **Task:** Set up a Discourse forum test instance on Joe's hosting.
    - **Responsible:** Chris and Joe

## 6. Next Meeting:

- Agenda item to be added to next week's meeting to reschedule for a time convenient for Central European Time.
