# FreeCAD Project Association Weekly Meeting Minutes

1. **Meeting Information:**
   - Date: 12 March 2025
   - Time: 9:15am US CDT
   - Location: Jit.si Online meeting
   - Attendees: chennes, yorik, wandererfan, sliptonic, shaise, PhoneDroid, prokoudine, reqrefusion

2. **Agenda Items:**
    - Grant Committee Reviews and Voting
    - OficinaRobotica Trailer Video Payment
    - FAB25 Conference
    - February Financials
    - Grant Size and Duration
    - Joint Events with KiCAD
    - Soliciting Corporate Donations
    - GDPR and Compliance
    - CAD Working Group (CWG)
    - Q1 Grant Submission Deadline
    - GSOC
    - Telemetry Add-on
    - FEP Process
    - Open Cascade Discussion
    - Current Votes/Ajinkya's Travel Grant
    - Developer Forum/DigitalOcean Access
    - Finances/Legal Counsel

3. **Discussion Points:**

* **Grant Committee Reviews and Voting:**  Discussed how FPA members will vote on grants, considering ranked choice voting and budget line options.  chennes will provide a ranking with comments to the FPA.  reqrefusion suggested a two-stage voting system.  Alex will research best practices from other organizations.

* **Robotica Trailer Video Payment:** OficinaRobotica will email the FPA regarding payment for the 1.0 trailer video.

* **Fab 25 Conference:** chennes is attending the Fab 25 conference in Czechia.

* **February Financials:**  Discussed withdrawing Open Collective account balance of approximately 10.000 EUR, which appears complex.  yorik will investigate further.  Suggested encouraging grant recipients to use Open Collective for easier payments.

* **Grant Size and Duration:**  Confirmed preference for small, focused grants.  Posted stats on grant proposals, but no adjustments were made by grant proposers.

* **Joint Events with KiCAD:** Brad will schedule a meeting.

* **Soliciting Corporate Donations:**  Discussed strategies for soliciting corporate donations, including targeted approaches based on unfunded grants.  Considered revisiting sponsor packages. Decision was to wait until we had a set of unfunded grants, then use those to approach potential donors. Someone needs to make a list of those donors.

* **GDPR and Compliance:**  yorik updated the data protection policy document.  The policy will be published on the handbook and shared on the FPA forum for feedback.

* **CAD Working Group (CWG):** The CWG will submit a list of proposed bounties and their process for selection to the FPA for a block vote.

* **Q1 Grant Submission Deadline:** The grant review committee will meet after the developer meeting and provide recommendations to the FPA.

* **GSOC:**  Discussed the administrative setup for GSOC, with chennes added as an org admin.

* **Telemetry Add-on:**  chennes will request a few more testers at the upcoming developer meeting.  Working with Kacper on a public-facing dashboard.  Crash data automation is not yet implemented.

* **FEP Process:**  Discussed the need for a formalized FreeCAD Enhancement Proposal process.  Kacper (kadet1090) is working on this.

* **Open Cascade Discussion:**  Noted a forum discussion involving Open Cascade members Sergey and Dmitri. Sergey was a long-time developer, Dmitri is newer.

* **Current Votes/Ajinkya's Travel Grant:**  Discussed Ajinkya's travel grant request and the ongoing vote.

* **Developer Forum/DigitalOcean Access:** chennes needs admin access to the FreeCAD DigitalOcean account.  yorik will investigate.

* **Finances/Legal Counsel:**  Mastadon contact provided a lawyer referral, but it's deemed too expensive.  yorik will contact the Eclipse Foundation for advice.

4. **Decisions Made:**
    - Publish yorik's data protection policy draft to the handbook and FPA forum for review.
    - CWG to submit a proposed list of bounties to the FPA for a block vote.
    - Encourage grant recipients to submit invoices through Open Collective.

5. **Action Items:**
    - Brad: Schedule meeting with KiCAD.
    - Alex: Research best practices for grant voting from other organizations.
    - yorik: Create handbook page for data protection policy and post to FPA forum.
    - yorik: Investigate DigitalOcean admin access for chennes.
    - yorik: Contact Eclipse Foundation regarding legal counsel.
    - chennes: Conduct further testing of telemetry add-on.
    - chennes/kadet1090: Develop public-facing telemetry dashboard.
    - kadet1090: Continue work on FEP process.

6. **Next Meeting:** 19 March 2025, 9:15am US CDT.
