# FreeCAD Project Association Admin Team Meeting
21 January 2026

This meeting discusses the FreeCAD development roadmap, focusing on release blockers, upcoming events, budget updates, and strategies for managing add-ons, particularly those generated by AI. The team also explores options for video call hosting and community engagement.

---

## OpenCASCADE Liaison

*   Pieter reports no updates and looks forward to FOSDEM and FreeCAD Day the following week.

---

## FPA Initiatives Top Four

*   The FPA initiatives for 2026 are in a holding pattern. Further discussions are planned for FreeCAD Day and FOSDEM to determine the direction of FPA.

---

## Transferring freecadweb.org

*   Yorik is still trying to transfer freecadweb.org but hasn't received an answer from Jürgen Riegel, who was the domain's original owner until the hosting company went out of business last year. Technically he still owns the domain, but cannot access any sort of control panel to transfer or manage it.
*   **Domain Status:** The domain is still owned by Jürgen for six more months.
*   **Acquisition Strategy:** If acquiring the domain through Jürgen fails, the strategy is to wait until it's free and attempt to purchase it immediately.
*   Turan suggests that others might try to buy it first, potentially automatically.
*   Yorik will continue trying to acquire the domain.

---

## Stickers

*   Chris Rogers designed stickers, and Yorik ordered 1,000 of them, expected to arrive this week, in time to distribute at FreeCAD Day and FOSDEM.
*   The team agrees to remove this item from the agenda once the stickers arrive, pending any further updates from Chris.

---

## 3D Printed FreeCAD Keychain

*   Chris Rogers has been working on a 3D-printed FreeCAD keychain.
*   Chris notes that the initial light red print turned out orangey, and a new one with better color tone has been ordered.
*   Chris is in London, so will ship the keychain to Yorik.
*   Shipping to Concrete Dog in the UK is suggested as an alternative. Chris agrees to connect with Concrete Dog for shipping.

---

## Hardware Grant

*   Turan plans to write something up about a hardware grant, but hasn't yet. The item remains on hold.

---

## Bounty for Adding Tests

*   The team discusses the bounty for adding tests and the challenges of evaluating test adequacy.
*   Chris Hennes plans to discuss this further with Kacper Donat in Brussels next week. The item is on hold pending that discussion.

---

## Encrypted Data

*   Yorik hasn't looked into the encrypted data issue yet, so this item remains on hold.

---

## Change to Grant Program

*   The changes to the grant program, setting the budget at 40,000 euros and limiting applications to one per developer per quarter, have passed.
*   Alex, Jo, and Chris are tasked with creating a blog post about the next year's grant program.
*   The possibility of publishing a report for 2025 first is raised.
*   The team decides to publish the grant program section separately and then publish the changes for the next program.
*   Alex and Chris will work together to create the blog post.
*   It is suggested to make the two blog posts a few days apart or merge them into one.

---

## FreeCAD Professional Network

*   This agenda item is on hold, pending Brad's decision.

---

## 6 Budget

*   The 2026 budget is discussed.
*   Max's request for an increased payment of 1,500 euros a month for bug triage work has been approved.
*   Alex's contract renewal hasn't been voted on yet because it isn't up for renewal until June.
*   The budget approval and annual report vote traditionally happen together.

---

## Jitsi Hosting Options

*   Joe hasn't done any more research on alternate Jit.si hosting options, but will work with Billy, who will provide a tour of Big Blue Button.

---

## Real-World Meetup (FOSDEM)

*   The upcoming FreeCAD Day and FOSDEM events are discussed.
*   **FreeCAD Day:** 38 people are registered.
*   **FOSDEM:** The team will have a table at FOSDEM with participation from various groups.
*   Yorik has booked a restaurant for Friday night and will confirm attendance numbers to decide on the venue (basement vs. upstairs).
*   Catering, stickers, and t-shirts have been ordered, and HSBXL is confirmed for Thursday.
*   There will be a half-strike in Belgium affecting train service, but trains will still run.
*   The team starts planning for the North American meetup in the summer or fall.
*   Brad tracked down the information that Lewis Cobb was the Canadian who had expressed interest in hosting the event, but further information is needed.
*   Chris confirmed that speakers for the FreeCAD Day are registered.
*   There will be a schedule, though it hasn't been made yet.

---

## Fund Someone to Create a Modeling Competition

*   The job has been posted, and two applicants will be at FOSDEM.
*   The team will discuss the position with the applicants in person at FOSDEM. This item is in a holding pattern.

---

## Lens Server

*   Kurt needs to set up a public server.
*   The team discusses the amount of money left in the Ondsel Onward Fund.
*   Amritpal has submitted a pull request to add Google-based authentication.
*   The team talks about account creation. Pieter confirms that he tested the GitHub integration and it seemed to work.
*   The Lens server may be set up but beta. Disclaimers are needed.
*   The team discussed using the remaining funds in the Ondsel Onwards allocation to improve documentation.
*   Chris Rogers proposed that when the software is ready for wider publicity, a video could be produced about it.

---

## Additional Topics

*   Concerns about AI generated content, especially regarding Addons

