# FreeCAD Project Association Admin Team Meeting

April 15, 2026

## Standing item

No updates or reports from FPA supported positions this week.

## Inivite donors to the meeting

Turan proposes that we explicitly invite donors to the FPA meeting. It is not clear how we should go about doing this, but it may tie into a later discussion item about the professional network.

## FPA "No-AI" Policy Proposal

Turan proposes a "No-AI" policy for the FPA: 
“FPA funds **__ONLY__** work grounded in **__Human__** labor, ingenuity, and original contribution. In all other cases, FPA reserves the right to make any determination and take any action it deems necessary.”

This dovetails with a proposed "No AI" policy that will be discussed in the upcoming April 18, 2026 developer meeting, and leads directly to the next agenda item.

## Hardening the Bounty Program Against AI Slop

FPA members discussed strategies for eliminating the enormous influx of low-quality AI-generated bug fix submissions, particularly those for trivial bugs, or those where there is no consensus abut the correct path forward (e.g. very new bugs, etc.).

One aspect of the bounty program that is not emphasized enough is its community-building intent, where FPA gives small amounts of money to many different community members to spread donor money throughout the community. AI-driven bounty hunters subvert that intent.

Initial proposal: two new GitHub tags: **Bounty: Candidate** and **Bounty: Approved**. Anyone can ask that an Issue be a **Bounty: Candidate**. Devs and maintainers will periodically consider the candidates and manually move them to approved status
* Expected emphasis:
    1. Regressions with priority
    2. Only confirmed bugs
    3. At least a few months old, nothing more recent than the last Merge Meeting
    4. Real pain points, not cosmetic quick fixes
    5. Somehow limit to "complex" issues
    6. No "good first issues" labels (Can we add that it should be no less than 6 months? Some of them really do stay for a very long time.)
 
The main criticisms of this plan were how to implement while avoiding adding too much administrative overhead. @chennes will discuss with Max to find a good path forward.

## FOSS-First Policy

A proposed "FOSS-first" policy was discussed, with opinion divided over the advisability of the name, in particular. @sliptonic pointed out that we often have other priorities that are truly first: for example, user privacy, and that should be more important than whether the software is FOSS. The rebuttal was that "FOSS First" didn't mean "Only FOSS", but rather that FOSS was always part of the considering, and that all else being equal, the FOSS solution should be chosen. Jo Hinchliffe has created a Codeberg repo for the actual policy wording, and members tabled the discussion to work on the wording at Codeberg.

## Annual Report

The annual report is ready for publication. @yorik will post it, and the blog team will publicize it.

## Other business

Most other agenda items were reports on various completed or on-hold projects, with no further discussion.
