# FreeCAD Project Association Admin Team Meeting Summary - January 14, 2026

This document summarizes the FreeCAD Project Association (FPA) admin team meeting held on January 14, 2026. The meeting covered reports from various project leads, financial updates, and a discussion about priorities for 2026, including potential changes to grant programs and upcoming events like FOSDEM and FreeCAD Day.

---

## Project Lead Reports and Updates

This section summarizes reports from various project leads and supported individuals.

*   **Infrastructure Maintenance Lead (Kurt):**  Kurt was absent from the meeting.

*   **Open Cascade Liaison (Pieter):** Pieter reported that his contract extends until the end of February and expressed interest in continuing if budget allows. He suggested focusing on becoming a more active developer within OCCT, aiming to solve PRs and introduce other developers to the code. He also mentioned his current invoice is about 430 euros.

*   **Ecosystem Coordinator (PhoneDroid):** PhoneDroid reported work on Rocket Workbench and highlighted the Addon Development Discord channel and new Addon Developer section of the FreeCAD forum.

*   **Addon Ecosystem Technical Lead (Frank):** Frank discussed planning challenges related to bindings, APIs, documentation, and the add-on manager. He emphasized the need for team agreement on priorities for the add-ons ecosystem.

  The team discussed Frank's role and how to prioritize tasks within the ecosystem.

  *   Frank needs guidance on prioritizing tasks such as the add-on manager, APIs, and rework of the init part, seeking input from the community.
  *   It was agreed that Frank should bring these points to the developer meeting to gather community input and decide on priorities.


*   **Professional Network (Brad):** Brad is considering stepping down from his role and is in discussions with potential candidates at FOSDEM. He emphasized the importance of strategic execution and bandwidth, citing that he lacks the bandwidth to execute effectively.
*   **Release Manager (Adrian):** The release is currently on hold, awaiting the update of the DUNS record with Yorik's phone number to obtain the signing key for the Windows binary.
*   **Bug Triage (Max):** Max has requested an increase in compensation from 1,000 to 1,500 euros per month. A vote is open on this proposal.

---

## Financial Reports and Donation Strategy

This section summarizes the financial updates and the discussion surrounding donation strategies.

*   **November Finances (Turan):** A significant grant was paid out to Pieter, totaling 21,000 euros. Donations were good but not as high as the previous year due to the lack of a release. Turan will present on FreeCAD money matters at FreeCAD Day.
*   **Donation Trends:** A bump in donations was observed in December despite the absence of a release, attributed to end-of-year giving and large donations.
*   **Grant Payments:** A reminder from Pieter that payments to him were originally allocated from the 2024 budget.
*   **Release Cycle and Donations:** There was a discussion on whether to separate releases from the end of the year to maximize donation opportunities or amplify their combined effect.

---

## Discussion on Release Cycle and Community Engagement

The team explored the impact of release frequency on donations and community engagement.

*   **Frequent Enhancement Proposal (FEP0003):** Jackson Oursland's proposal to move to a quarterly release cycle was discussed. Concerns were raised about the feasibility and impact on donation patterns.
*   **Technical Feasibility:** It was noted that historically the release workflow was very labor intensive, but progress has been made in automating some parts of the process.
*   **Community Direction:** It was emphasized that the FPA should not dictate the release cycle but support the community's technical decisions.

---

## Priorities for 2026: Focus on Stability and Undesirable Tasks

The team discussed the top priorities for the FPA in 2026.

*   **Stability:** A proposal was made to focus on stability and consolidation rather than launching new programs.
*   **Undesirable Tasks:** A key priority is to allocate resources to less glamorous but essential tasks like bug fixing, writing tests, and documentation. Basic development work remains a volunteer effort.

---

## Addressing Community Complaints and New Developer Engagement

The discussion addressed community feedback and strategies for attracting new developers.

*   **Community Feedback:** It was agreed that feedback from FOSDEM should inform decisions on where to focus resources, particularly on addressing user pain points.
*   **Documentation:** Good documentation was emphasized as a tool to attract new developers and empower users, despite potentially lower perceived value among advanced developers.
*   **Developer Metrics:** The team recognized the need for metrics beyond the number of contributors, focusing on long-term, high-impact developers.

---

## Sticker Design and Swag for Upcoming Events

The team discussed sticker designs and other promotional items for upcoming events.

*   **Sticker Designs:** Chris Rogers is leading the sticker design process, and Yorik approved the designs, urging Chris to prepare the sticker files for printing.
*   **Sticker Quantities:** The usual order quantity is 1,000 stickers.
*   **3D-Printed Keychains:** Chris offered to 3D-print FreeCAD logo keychains as additional swag.
*   **Shirt Design:** Yorik could choose the design for the shirts as in the past, but it's probably too late now.

---

## North American Meetup and Action Items

The team discussed the location of the next North American meetup and assigned action items.

*   **Canada Meetup:** Before deciding on location, the team will reach out to the people in Toronto who had previously shown interest to see if any plans are in the work.
*   **Potential D.C. Meetup:** Joe offered to look for a venue around the DC area to host the next North American meetup.
*   **Action Items:** The team agreed to vote on open proposals and that Yorik will provide the required details to Chris for production of keychains and shirts.

---

## Key Takeaways and Decisions

The FPA admin team meeting concluded with a focus on strategic priorities for 2026, emphasizing stability, addressing community concerns, and optimizing resource allocation. Key decisions included moving forward with sticker production for FOSDEM and FreeCAD Day, exploring options for a North American meetup, and continuing discussions on grant program changes. The team agreed to revisit the top priorities after gathering feedback at FOSDEM.
