# FPA Admin Team Meeting

04 February 2026

This document summarizes a meeting of the FreeCAD project team, focusing on updates from FOSDEM, ongoing projects, and future planning, including a potential North American meetup and improvements for FOSDEM 2027.

---

## FOSDEM Review and Follow-up

- The team discusses the success of their talks at FOSDEM and the event's impressive custom-built hardware for recording. Pieter notes the efficiency of the automated email system for reviewing talks.
- Chris is commended for his role in managing the event, while others share their experiences and wish they could have attended.
- The team celebrates Cosmo's first time at FOSDEM.

---

## Action Items and Project Updates

- **Open Cascade Technology (OCCT) Issues:** Pieter emphasizes the importance of submitting issues to OCCT to direct resources effectively. He notes that their GitHub bug tracker is currently underutilized.
- **Mantis Bug Tracker:** The team discusses the planned discontinuation of the Mantis bug tracker and migration to GitHub. An offer to help migrate their Mantis is extended.
- **Add-on Ecosystem:** Chris is working on a new index for the add-on ecosystem. He also addresses concerns about add-on installations and dependencies.
- **Blog Team:** Alex mentions working on text blog posts in a new research section.
- **Web Infrastructure:** The team is nearing the launch of new web infrastructure, which will benefit the blog team directly.
- **Hardware Grant:** The hardware grant is on hold, awaiting Reqrefusion's return.
- **Testing Documentation:** Frank calls attention to documentation/specs on the testing framework for the community.

---

## Real-World Meetup Planning

- The next meetup is planned for North America. The team discusses a potentially inexperienced Canadian team that initially volunteered to host.
- It is suggested that the Canadian team attend the North American meetup to gain experience before hosting their own event.
- Billy and Obelisk have both offered to host, with discussions around venue requirements (projector, internet, power) and catering options.
- The proposed timeframe is early to mid-August, with consideration for university schedules.
- Billy will gather information regarding size and power needs for the makerspace being offered
- The team decides to engage Joe to determine his level of commitment to hosting in D.C..

---

## FOSDEM 2027 Planning

- Pieter suggests creating an item to discuss improvements for FOSDEM 2027.
- **Venue:** Yorik is tasked with reserving Tanneurs early to avoid venue issues experienced this year.
- **Presentations:** Based on feedback from FreeCAD Day 2026, presentation time slots should default to 20 minutes long rather than 15
- **Hardware Demos:** The micro manipulator demo at the FreeCAD table was well-received, and there is a goal to have multiple hardware projects to rotate demonstrations.

---

## Outstanding Action Items

- **Fundraising:** Yorik needs to correct paperwork with the bank and address encryption/credential issues. Pieter owes the FPA 40 euros from t-shirt sales and 60 euros for donations.
- **FreeCAD Professional Network:** Item on hold until Brad rejoins the meeting.
- **Jitsi Hosting Options:** Billy will find out the necessary information from the makerspace.
- **Test Discourse:** Holding pattern until Kurt returns.
- **Lens Server:** Item for Kurt to stand up a public server, potential funding available.
- **2026 Grant Program:** Joe, Alex, and the Chris to put together a blog post and publicize the funding details.

The meeting concludes with several action items assigned and a plan to revisit tabled items when the full team is present.
