# FreeCAD Project Association Admin Team Meeting

April 22, 2026

## Standing Item

1. Infrastructure Maintenance Lead (kkremitzki) - still unavailable due to personal circumstances.
2. OpenCASCADE Liaison (Pieter Hijma) - Nothing to report
3. Addon Ecosystem Technical Lead (mnesarco) - PhoneDroid has resigned as Addon Ecosystem Coordinator, so the Addon Ecosystem roles are in flux right now.
4. Professional Network (sliptonic) - Proposes to table the professional network as currently envisioned.
5. Release Manager (adrianinsaval) - No report.
6. Bug Triage (maxwxyz) - No report.
7. Git Bisector (ipatch) - No report.
8. Blog team (prokoudine) - The bloggers continue blogging.

## FreeCAD Pilot Design Competition update

Jo  Hinchliffe reports that the competition is ready to launch, and that should be happening this week.

## Request for scope expansion and budget increase from Rehan Ahmed

Rehan Ahmed requests additional funding to increase the scope of his already-awarded Q1 grant. The FPA does not have a formal process for this, but the amount requested is 250 euros, below the discretionary spending limit, so the FPA administrators will discuss the request and decide whether to accept.

## Invite donors to the FPA meeting(reqrefusion)

Turan would like to continue to pursue this, so is going to post an invitation to social media.

## FPA FOSS First policy

Draft now on nextcloud… https://cloud.freecad.org/s/naL2de3RMLego9G. Discussion continues on the Codeberg repo. 

## Donations defaulting to Euros

Still waiting on Yorik to get Turan access to the Stripe account.

## Big Blue Button

Meetings are now being successfully held on our Bigger Blue Button instance. Remaining action items are for @chennes to cancel screenapp.io and Joe to work with Yorik to get BBB onto the FPA credit card

## Trademark

Application is in process, and is in waiting period. Yorik emphasizes that the purpose of the trademark is not to attack forks, but rather enable us to protect against genuine threats to the project like malware hosts, etc.

##  Windows Code Signing

Azure code signing was successfully used for the 1.1.0 and 1.1.1 releases, proving that this option works. Remaining to-do items are for @chennes to move payment to the FPA credit card, and for @yorik to cancel the SSL.com service (which we never got working).
