# Meeting Minutes

1. Meeting Information:
   - Date: January 7, 2026
   - Time: 1530h UTC
   - Location: Jit.si

---

2. Agenda Items:
   - Reports from Team Members
   - Stickers from Chris Rogers
   - Hardware Grants
   - Practical Action for Transparency
   - November Finances
   - Bounty for Adding Tests
   - Concrete Steps Towards Generating Next Top Four
   - Assets Repo
   - Issue Bisector Role

---

## Reports from Team Members

- **Infrastructure Maintenance Lead (Kurt):**
  - Default Docker Compose configuration for Lens server doesn't work correctly behind a reverse proxy.
  - The default configuration for Lens has a port open, posing a security risk due to MongoBleed.
  - Researching infrastructure maintenance processes of Eclipse AISBL and considering networking with them in Brussels.
- **OpenCASCADE Liaison (Pieter):**
  - Away for the last two weeks due to moving offices and internet issues.
  - Starting work again this week.
- **Adon Ecosystem Coordinator (John):**
  - Discussed add-on development in meetings with Pieter and David Carter.
  - Planning seasonal add-on developer meetings.
  - New Discord channel, Add-on Development, for add-on developers.
- **Addon Technical Lead (Frank):**
  - Integrating Matomo stats into the add-on report.
  - Planning overhaul of the add-on manager UI with Chris.
  - Qt5 drop opens opportunities for UI improvements.
- **FreeCAD Professional Network (Brad):**
  - Personal issues and other commitments are hindering FPN progress.
  - Considering reopening FPN to find someone with time and energy to pursue it.
- **Blog (Alex):**
  - Need to post a recap of the grant program.
  - Will post the annual FPA report in January or February.
  - Plans to post another FreeCAD in research blog post later this month.

---

## Stickers from Chris Rogers

- An issue for stickers has been created for people to view and comment.

---

## Hardware Grants

- Turan suggests providing faster hardware to speed up PICET compilation for testing.
- Yorik recalls past hesitancy about paying for individual hardware.
- Yorik suggests handling hardware needs case by case due to tight budget.
- Joe's concern is eligibility and abuse.
- It was mentioned that Max is already being paid, which should include hardware costs.
- Turan suggests creating a hardware policy for proposals.
- Policy should establish rules and requirements.

---

## Practical Action for Transparency

- Francisco Rosa requested documentation of grant process, opinions, and information from participants.
- FPA prioritizes technical aspects; votes are cast at members' discretion.
- Alex suggests the miscommunication of the reasons for not voting for his proposal was the core issue.
- Yorik suggests publishing vote results without revealing individual votes.
- Pieter suggests explaining the process and mathematical calculations.
- Pieter says a summary of the reasons to prefer others would be nice.
- John says that our members are not professionals for all areas.
- Alex recalls providing more background from the technical review committee.
- Alex notes Francisco's proposal was recurring work on a third-party add-on.
- Alex suggests updating program rules to clarify position on recurrent work on third-party functionality.
- Pieter says Alex's explanation of prioritizing internal add-ons is helpful.
- Yorik says discarding the technical review group has caused less feedback.
- Yorik suggests that FPA members provide justification when voting no.
- Discussion about requiring FPA voters to justify a no vote.
- FPA needs to take care with communicating with rejected grantees.
- Need to have as a team the statements to make to people rejected.
- It was decided that perhaps it is necessary to have a separate discussion about updating the rules.
- It was suggested that the technical vote, the strategical vote, the budget vote can be more specific to allow better analysis on how the grant was given.

---

## November Finances

- November income was 11,000 euros with 200 euros to the bank.
- Interested in seeing December donation numbers.

---

## Bounty for Adding Tests

- Discussed adding a bounty of 50 euros for adding tests for bugs.
- Discussed encouraging or compensating developers for meetups to explain Git workflow and testing.
- Frank suggests a podcast to discuss general things in an informal way.
- The idea would be to have users or developers talk about what they are doing.
- Kurt suggested in the comments there's something like an office hours set up.
- Add that to the developer meeting's agenda item.

---

## FYI Financial Officer

- Most tasks are done except for bank authorization for Turan.
- Turan cannot access PayPal due to restrictions in Turkey.
- Send Turan CSV files monthly; others can help with PayPal payments.
- Need an FPA issue for each payment.
- Made sample requests to have the repo updated with The roster is updated too.
- Turan needs to create a PGP key.
- Remove credential files; share passwords another way.

---

## Proposed Change to the Grant Program

- Discussed dropping the grant program size to â‚¬40,000 for next year and limiting to one grant per person per quarter.
- Vote on the annual reports.
- A vote on a proposed change was set to be created.
  
---

## Revisiting Sponsorship Donation FPN Programs

- Brad still needs access to the sponsor's CSV.
- This is related to potentially re-opening FPN and finding a new manager.

---

## Assets Repo

- Assets Repo was created and a discussion was made in order to best classify assets, for the asset repo to properly reflect such assets.
- Consider all graphical assets, branding assets, social media templates, CAD models, stickers, posters, and video assets.
- SVGs, icon sets etc can all be categorized as graphical assets.
- Determine which assets are the most appropriate before implementing a search for assets.
- Ensure the repo isn't another FPA problem.
- For the time being, allow to grow organically.

---

## Issue Bisector Role

- It was decided to go ahead with Chris Jones in that role.
- Will be funded for one year.
- Chris needs to work with Yorik to establish a contract and payment mechanism.
- Add Billy to the General Assembly.
