# FreeCAD Project Association Admin Team Meeting

11 February 2026

This document summarizes the FreeCAD Project Association admin team meeting held on February 11, 2026. The meeting covered infrastructure maintenance, OpenCascade liaison, add-on ecosystem coordination, grants, top four priorities, and other administrative items.

---
## Infrastructure Maintenance

- **Wiki Rendering Issues**: Kurt is addressing intermittent wiki rendering problems due to Anubis, noting a race condition not fixed in the latest release.
- **DevTalk Migration**: Kurt plans to resume the DevTalk migration this week.
- **Discord Issues**: Discord is experiencing political difficulties and potential loss of user identity information, prompting exploration of alternatives.

---
## Discourse Experiment and Alternatives

- **Discourse Status**: The Discourse experiment was largely successful but requires token refresh and database update.
- **Voice Chat**: Discourse's suitability for real-time communication is questioned, leading to continued search for community alternatives.
- **Discord Concerns**: Concerns raised about potential bans or blocks on Discord due to age verification policies.
- Joe's strong preference for Discord is noted.
---
## OpenCascade Liaison

- **Contract Extension Proposal**: Pieter submitted a contract extension proposal for the FBA to review.
---
## Add-On Ecosystem

- **New Add-ons Index**: Chris has been working on the new add-ons index.
- **Repository Improvements**: The FreeCAD/Addons repository now has a new index with improvements and eliminates git modules for better maintainability.
- **Curated Attribute**: A "curate" attribute can be used to differentiate quality add-ons from general add-ons.

---
## Add-On Integration
- **CAM Mods Integration**: Discussions with Brad and Billy about potential future integration of CAM mods, tools etc. into the add-on manager.
- **Frank's API**: PhoneDroid spoke with Frank about the API.
---
## Add-On Ecosystem Technical Lead - API Documentation

- **API Documentation**: Frank is documenting the API to present in the next developer meetings in 2021.
- **Naming Conventions**: There will be discussions and potential controversies regarding naming conventions and structures.
- **Proposals, not code**: It's documentation, just proposals for things before starting doing anything.
---
## Grants Without Action

- **Inactive Grants**: Alex reported four individuals with grants showing no activity in over six months.
- Three of the four individuals are regulars.
- **Contact and Extension**: Alex will contact grantees to inquire about their need for extensions, following Reqrefusion's policy of requiring activity within three months.

---
## Grantee Feedback and 2D Nesting Tool

- **Joe and Jackson**: Both Joe and Jackson intend to continue their grant work.
- Joe is OK with closing it to help admin overhead.
- **2D Nesting Tool**: The 2D nesting tool grant recipient showed no progress and provided substandard work, likely leading to a clawback.
Pieter notes that 2D nesting is complicated.
---
## Google Summer of Code

- **GSOC Project**: It would be cool to free the 2D nesting tool for the next Google Summer of Code now so students can pick it.
---
## Revisiting Top Four Priorities

- **Tabled Discussion**: A discussion about revisiting the top four priorities, tabled from the previous week, is brought back.
- **Documentation Team**: A suggestion to allocate funds towards creating a strategic, long-term documentation team.
---
## Documentation Strategy and the Wiki

- **Diataxis Framework**: Mentioned to aligning documentation to the user needs.
- **Wiki Concerns**: The wiki's lack of structure and control is noted, prompting a discussion on migrating to another system or integrating the wiki into a larger scheme.
- I don't think at MediaWiki, at Wikipedia, they probably don't have any structure that controls where things go.
- **Add-on Academy**: PhoneDroid created the Addon Academy as he cannot work with the wiki as it is.
---
## Documentation: Indexing and User Needs

- **Documentation Coordinator**: There is maybe a need for a documentation coordinator to index existing resources across various platforms (forums, wiki, YouTube, Reddit).
- **User Perspective**: User often ask about where they can find a class or a documentation that kind of reads like a class.
- **Class Material**: ConcreteDog has a grant to create class material.
---
## Documentation: Frameworks and Future Steps

- **Framework Discussion**: Brad suggests a documentation meeting to discuss strategy, communication, and involvement before allocating funds or hiring personnel.
- **Tutorials**: Chris highlights the need for full tutorials, and Alex indicates there are tutorials on YouTube.
- **Yorik's Plate**: The document to-do item is on Yorikâ€™s plate.

---
## Focus on Testing

- **Testing Proposal**: There is room for the FPA to put money or put effort, organizational effort into encouraging testing, maybe along the same lines we were just talking about with documentation, like a testing working group or something.
- **Action Needed**: The team needs to determine, what happens after this, like, do we schedule meetings or put them in the calendar.
- Brad noted this agenda item is really what should be the top four things.

---
## Faster Releases

- **Faster Releases Discussion**: FEP-0003 calls for monthly beta releases, quarterly point releases, and an annual long-term support release.
- **Documentation and Translations**: Translations need to be managed.
- So I guess reliability and faster releases somehow go hand in hand.

---
## Faster Releases
- **Streamline the Release Process**: There is talk to invest into making that process better because as far as I heard, it's obscure and not very documented and complicated.
- Alex mentions if many regressions and blockers, maybe it's code review and development process issues.
---
## Top Three Priorities:

- **Documentation**
- **Testing**
- **Release Cycle**

---
## FPN: Strategy and Sponsorship

- **FPN Discussion**: Brad stated that the agenda item is really what should be the top four things.

- **Integration and Benefits**: The current FPN structure overlaps with sponsorship tiers and lacks clear benefits, necessitating a refactor.

- **Next Steps**: Brad will set up a meeting with Jo and Alex Sadowski.
---
## Financial Officer and Encryption

- **Encrypted Data**: Yorik has reviewed 2 solutions.
Bitwarden and KeePass XC.
- **KeePass XC**: KeePass XC will be saved on GitHub.
---
## Key Takeaways and Action Items

The meeting identified documentation, testing, and release cycle as the top three priorities for the FPA. It also highlighted the need to rethink the FPN and sponsorship program. Action items include Yorik preparing a text about the plan. The next steps are reaching out to Joe and Sadowski.
