# FPA Admin Team Meeting

18 February 2026

This document summarizes the FreeCAD Packaging Association (FPA) weekly meeting, focusing on key discussions and action items related to budget allocations, project updates, and community engagement. The meeting covered topics ranging from AI-assisted code reviews to travel grants and bounty programs, all aimed at enhancing FreeCAD's ecosystem.

---

## Add-on Ecosystem and Calendar Management

*   PhoneDroid reported on the new add-on ecosystem meeting and requested editing access to the events calendar.
*   Yorik granted Von Droid permission to update the calendar.
*   PhoneDroid suggested embedding an external calendar into the main FPA calendar for better organization.
*   Yorik agreed to explore the possibility of embedding the external calendar.
*   PhoneDroid also requested updates to the add-on manager with new filters for index and curated attributes.

---

## Bounty Program and Budget Allocation

*   The team addressed the renewal of the bug bounty program after the initial funding of 5,000 euros was nearly exhausted.
*   Turan noted that nearly the entire initial budget of the bounty program has been used.
*   Chris Hennes, who arrived late, joined the discussion regarding renewing the bug bounty program and whether to allocate the same amount or a higher amount.
*   A decision was made to allocate another 5,000 euros from the reserve fund.

---

## Travel Grants and Currency Conversion

*   The team addressed the inconsistency of travel grants being budgeted in euros but advertised and requested in US dollars.
*   Chris Hennes proposed switching the grant currency to euros at 600 euros per grant.
*   Yorik confirmed the budget would remain at 6,000 euros, with the change only affecting documentation and calculations.
*   The change to euros will be applied to future travel grants.

---

## Grant Activity Review

*   The team reviewed grants with no action in over six months, tasking Turan to contact grantees for updates.
*   Turan provided updates on individual grantees, noting personal circumstances affecting their progress.
*   The consensus was to allow grantees more time, acknowledging potential reasons for delays.
*   Yorik suggested a reminder to donors for a future fund.
*   The group decided to kill the item and check again in three months.

---

## Project Updates and Action Items

*   **FPA Initiative Top 4**: The team identified three new areas of focus for the year.
*   **Annual Report**: Yorik's draft was reviewed, and Turan will assist with graphics.
*   **FreeCADWeb.org Transfer**: Progress is still underway.
*   **Hardware Grants Reqrefusion**: He is actively working on it.
*   **Bounty for Adding Tests with Fix**: Chris Hennes will discuss criteria with Kadet and Benjamin.
*   **Financial Officer**: Yorik is addressing bank issues and KeePassXC review.
*   **Sponsorship Donation FPN Program**: A meeting with Alex Sadowski and Jo is scheduled.
*   **Jitsi Hosting/Big Blue Button**: Joe will gather hardware requirements for Big Blue Button hosting.
*   **Next Real-World Meetup**: Knoxville, Tennessee, is tentatively set for August 8th-9th.

---

## Wrap-up and Decisions

The meeting concluded with decisions on budget reallocations, adjustments to grant programs, and delegation of tasks to team members. Key takeaways include the allocation of 5,000 euros for the bug bounty program, the switch to euros for travel grants, and the plan to move forward with a real-world meetup in Knoxville. The team emphasized the importance of community involvement in defining curation standards for add-ons and agreed to revisit several action items in future meetings.
