_programs/blog_content.md, before:

---
title: "Paying for Blog Content"
description:
   "The FPA will pay authors to write original content for the FreeCAD Blog"
layout: default
---

# {{page.title}}

{{page.description}}

## The Program

In a new initiative aimed at improving the quantity and quality of online writing about FreeCAD, the FreeCAD Project Association is happy to announce that honoraria are now available for article writers here on FreeCAD News.

- The FPA will allocate $5000/yr to pay for original blog content.
- Content will be selected by the blog editor.
- Author will work with editor to finalize the article for publication.
- Author of selected content will be paid $100 per post.
- The FPA gets a non-exclusive right to publish the content in perpetuity.
- Content author retains copyright and may re-use the article on a personal blog, magazine, etc.
- Submitted posts must be at least 2000 words in length.
- Published posts will have a byline identifying the author (may use forum handle or another alias)


*Added on 2022.12.07*

Commit message:

Added the blog URL in the blog reward program, added contact info and disclaimer to disencourage lnk exchange spam

_programs/blog_content.md, after:

---
title: "Paying for Blog Content"
description:
   "The FPA will pay authors to write original content for the FreeCAD Blog"
layout: default
---

# {{page.title}}

{{page.description}}

## The Program

In a new initiative aimed at improving the quantity and quality of online writing about FreeCAD, the FreeCAD Project Association is happy to announce that honoraria are now available for article writers on the [FreeCAD blog](https://blog.freecad.org).

- The FPA will allocate $5000/yr to pay for original blog content.
- Content will be selected by the blog editor.
- Author will work with editor to finalize the article for publication.
- Author of selected content will be paid $100 per post.
- The FPA gets a non-exclusive right to publish the content in perpetuity.
- Content author retains copyright and may re-use the article on a personal blog, magazine, etc.
- Submitted posts must be at least 2000 words in length.
- Published posts will have a byline identifying the author (may use forum handle or another alias)

If you are interested in writing blog contents for the FreeCAD blog, drop us a mail at fpa@freecad.org Please note that we will only accept original FreeCAD-related content, and will not participate in any link exchange scheme or any other kind of commercial or sponsored content.

*Added on 2022.12.07*
