_programs/FPADF_Announcement.md, before:

---
title: "The FreeCAD Grant Program"
description:
    "Develop new features in FreeCAD and get paid by the community"
layout: default
mermaid: true
---

# {{page.title}}

The FreeCAD Grant Program aims to foster rapid development of FreeCAD and its ecosystem by giving grants to developers and non-programming contributors to work on specific projects. Their work is funded by the community, grants are issued by the FreeCAD Project Association that collects donations. The FPA reserved 50,000 EUR for the program in 2024, and plans to increase that funding in 2025.

For details on program rules, please refer to the [complete rulebook](/handbook/process/grant-program-rules).

The program was introduced in 2024 as a successor to the FPA Development Fund launched in August 2022.

## 2025 Program Timeline

Grants are evaulated and issued quarterly, with one fourth of the total budgeted funding available during each grant period, on the following schedule:

* Q1: March 1 submission deadline, March 15 committee meeting, voting complete by March 31
* Q2: June 1 submission deadline, June 21 committee meeting, voting complete by June 30
* Q3: Sept 1 submission deadline, Sept 20 committee meeting, voting complete by Sept 30
* Q4: Nov 15 submission deadline, Dec 7 committee meeting, voting complete by Dec 19  

Grants received after the Nov. 15 deadline will not be considered for the 2025 grant year, but will be held until the 2026 program is announced.

## Potential Projects

The FPA accepts applications to improve both FreeCAD and its ecosystem.

For FreeCAD-related projects an overall preference is given to projects that address major issues that are covered by the [general roadmap](https://freecad.github.io/DevelopersHandbook/roadmap/). We accept and welcome non-roadmap submissions as well.

We also accept "time commitment" grant applications where the contributor would work for a certain amount of time on any tasks related to a particular effort, such as refactoring code. Please refer to the [Fixed Goal vs Time Commitment](https://fpa.freecad.org/handbook/process/grant-program-rules.html#fixed-goal-vs-time-commitment) section of the rulebook.

Ecosystem includes (but is not limited to) FreeCAD infrastructure, as well as projects that are hard dependencies for FreeCAD, such as OCCT and Coin3D libraries. For ecosystem projects, we expect contributors to be in agreement with respective projects on goals and scope of work, as well as on contribution process prior to submitting the grant application.

## Qualifying for The Program

Both individuals and groups of individuals can qualify as grant acceptees. Applicants of all ethnicities, nationalities, sexes, and genders are welcome to apply for participation at the program, however some EU legislation restrictions might apply. Each applicant is expected to be old enough to perform work legally in the country of their residence and sign a contract with the FPA on behalf of themselves.

The program is geared towards individual contributors. However, the FPA grant committee will accept grant applications from a group of contributors as long as the group is either an incorporated company or a group of individuals represented by a single person. Each member of the group needs to qualify for participation.

## Application Requirements

We expect each applicant to have a great understanding of the scope of the proposed work. They should demonstrate the ability to plan their work ahead and deliver results in a timely manner without active mentorship. For details, please refer to the [Passing Criteria](https://fpa.freecad.org/handbook/process/grant-program-rules.html#passing-criteria) section of the rulebook.

## How to Submit a Grant Application

Grant applications are managed in a [public GitHub repository](https://github.com/FreeCAD/FPA-grant-proposals) in the FreeCAD project. To submit a grant application, start creating an issue and choose the application template in the form, then fill all the fields.

## FAQ

### Do I have to be a CAD development superstar to qualify?

Not necessarily. Some of the successful grants have been issued to developers who don’t have a ton of experience developing CAD software. However, they have great problem-solving skills and demonstrated understanding of the underlying math. Grants are also possible for non-programming contributors.

### I’m a student. Should I apply for GSoC or for the grant program?

This largely depends on how comfortable you feel around the FreeCAD code base. For GSoC, we provide some assistance via mentors. For the grant program, we expect contributors to be self-sufficient, all code goes through the same PR review process.

### Is there a “pencils down” deadline for the grant work like at GSoC?

No, we issue grants for projects that wildly vary in scope and complexity. Some projects would be a 1 month effort. Others could last half a year or more.

<!-- ### Do you have examples of really good grant proposals?

Yes. -->

### I missed the queue for the annual program. Now what?

You can apply for an individual grant. The same rules apply: make a great case for your project idea, demonstrate that you are capable of delivering proposed results, submit pull requests and progress updates, get paid for each stage, be a hero to all of us.

### Who reviews applications?

The grant review committee looks at technical aspects of each grant application. Current members: Chris Hennes (@chennes, overall maintainer, committee chair), Yorik van Havre (@yorik, Arch and Draft maintainer), @FreeCutter, @shaise, and @drmacro. Anyone who is interested in joining the grant review committee should reach out to Chris Hennes (chennes@freecad.org, @chennes on Discord, @chris_hennes on Telegram, and @chennes on the FreeCAD Forums).

The FPA general assembly then takes the technical review into consideration and looks at non-technical aspects of the proposal. The general assembly is more diverse, its members are both FreeCAD contributors, educators, and representatives of nonprofits and businesses. The full list of members is here.

### What happens if my situation changes and I can’t continue working on a project?

That depends on how much work you have managed to do. If you are in the middle of a project stage and you have already submitted mergeable or already merged pull requests, the FPA can issue a partial compensation for that stage and terminate the contract. 

Alternatively, you can request a partial compensation and a pause to handle your situation. We do not request you to share your life details with us, but we expect you to warn us in a timely manner.

## Ongoing projects funded by the FPA

### Kacper Donat (@kadet1090): Unified Transparent Previews

*Funding approved 28 November 2024.*

Kacper will work on a new feature preview system that can be used in Part and Part Design. Whenever you need to apply Pad or Loft or any other command, you will get a transparent preview of what you are getting right in the viewport. This is the first part of a larger project intended to unify Part and Part Design. He was awarded a grant of EUR 1,500 for the project.

### Joe Sardos (@Obelisk): Modernize, revise FreeCAD Art Guidelines and Icons

*Funding approved 11 November 2024.*

Joe will write new FreeCAD Art Guidelines along with providing replacement icons to follow the new guidelines. The current art guidelines are well thought-out and provide for reproducible style, however fall short of following current design trends for visual communication and rely heavily on bold and brash color combinations. The idea behind this prohect is to replace the guidelines, document them, work with the FreeCAD community across several platforms to find both style and form that have a general widespread acceptance, and replace them in their entirety. Total expected duration of the project is 3 months (or until complete). Joe was awarded USD 1,750 for the work.

### Dr. Rajeevlochana G. Chittawadigi, Dr. Ravi Kumar V., and Dr. Mohan Kumar S.: Content and Pedagogy Development for Teaching and Learning of Sketcher Workbench in FreeCAD Software

*Funding approved 9 November 2024.*

The team will develop a Sketcher addon for teaching how to use the workbench. Users will follow step-by-step instructions, and the wizard will highlight mistakes (if any) after each step. The project deliverables are spread across 9 months. The team was awarded a grant of USD 6,000 (to be paid to one representative in three steps).

### Pieter Hijma (@pieterhijma): Improve User Experience of VarSets
 
*Funding approved 9 November 2024.*

Peter will work on improving the user experience of VarSets. The work will include guiding the discussion on the more complicated topics, adding new features that are requested from users, and improving on various small issues. The work is scheduled to be done between January and April 2025. Pieter was awarded EUR 8,000 for the work.

### Turan Furkan Topak (@Reqrefusion): Recommendations and proposal for the improvement of documentation

*Funding approved 9 November 2024.*

Turan will improve the documentation wiki. He will apply fixes for some of the existing issues, improve the search feature, implement responsive design, opening direct user registration after making our Mediwiki instance vandal-safe, improve the editor, set up the ebooks generations for offline use, and improve various other things. Reqrefusion was awarded USD 3,000 for the work.

### FlachyJoe: bugfixes

*Funding approved 11 October 2024.*

FlachyJoe received an honorary grant of $1000 for working on bug fixes in this development cycle. Most recently he fixed a ton of bugs in Part Design, specifically in the Helix code.

### Jackson Oursland (@oursland): CI Hosting Research Proposal 

*Funding approved 4 October 2024.*

Jackson will research various options for FreeCAD to get fast CI runners. Currently, we have free runners from GitHub, but they are relatively slow and concurrency-limited. So Jackson will look into three general options: paid runners on GitHub, self-hosted runners in the cloud (AWS, Azure, GCS, maybe others), and self-hosted runners on premise. Jackson was awarded $500 for the research.

### Pieter Hijma (@pieterhijma): Research Variant Parts

*Funding approved 9 September 2024.*

Pieter Hijma will be working on research for variant parts. A number of FreeCAD features require inserting copy-on-change links, such as referencing external geometry in a body for which SubShapeBinders are used in Part Design. The architecture behind the current implementation involves hidden parts and temporary files and is fragile. Pieter will begin the project by elaborating on the current state of affairs in the forum for developers, then propose patches targeting several aspects of the current implementation. He was awarded a grant of EUR 8,000 for the entire project.

### Chris Jones (@ipatch): Update homebrew-freecad tap with a freecad formula that uses Python v3.12 and Qt v6

*Funding approved 27 August 2024.*

Chris will continue his work on homebrew builds of FreeCAD. This time, he will update the homebrew-freecad tap to link against Python v3.12 and Qt v6 when creating the build. The project is expected to take a few weeks to complete. Chris was awarded a grant of USD $2,000 for the project.

### Aleksandr Prokudin (@prokoudine): Blog Maintenance

*Funding approved 2 July 2024.*

Aleksandr will post weekly recaps of FreeCAD development and write 2 to 4 additional news posts a month. The contract is for 1 year, with monthly payouts of EUR 500.

### Pieter Hijma (@pieterhijma): Improve C++ API Documentation

*Funding approved 2 July 2024.*

Pieter will refine a documentation standard in collaboration with the community and Anurag Singh (the other API documentation grantee) and apply the standard to files in the App namespace. The project is expected to last 6 months. Pieter was awarded EUR 8,000 for the entire project.

### Anurag Singh (@drLite35): Improve the FreeCAD API documentation

*Funding approved 24 June 2024.*

Anurag will reorganize the existing documentation, enhance docstrings to ensure uniformity and thoroughness, enhance the documentation's visual appeal and usability, automate documentation's generation, and write a contributor guide with instructions for effective documentation. The project is expected to last approx. 5 months. Anurag was awarded USD 4,000 for the entire project.

### Andrianos Karampilis: User manual update

*Funding approved 9 June 2024.*

Andrianos is updating the user manual in the wiki. The goal is to update all 23 chapters of the manual to bring it up to speed with the current state of FreeCAD and explore the possibility of releasing EPUB and PDF versions of the manual. The compensation for this project is USD 2,500.

### Francisco de Assis Rosa (@Francisco-Rosa): Design new components for the FreeCAD library

*Funding approved 12 May 2024.*

Francisco will be designing furniture and parametric components for the FreeCAD library. Deliverables are “a few dozen pieces of furniture and parametric components (for architectural and engineering projects) for immediate use in FreeCAD”. He was awarded a grant of USD $5,000.

### Mario Passaglia (@marioalexis84): Bugfixing and electromagnetic system simulations using CalculiX

*Funding approved 11 February 2024.*

Mario will be working for 7 months to provide solutions for electromagnetic problems leveraging the CalculiX solver. He will also fix bugs in the FEM workbench. Mario was awarded a grant of USD 4,000.

### Max Wilfinger (@maxwxyz): Bugs triaging

*Funding approved 10 February 2024.*

Max will triage bug reports. The contract is for 1 year, with monthly payouts of USD 500.

### Adrian Insauuralde (@adrianinsaval): Packaging

*Funding approved 13 July 2023.*

Adrian proposed to work on release packaging, by fixing the conda builds and the process to generate packages for the different platforms, and documenting the process in the developers handbook. Adrian was awarded a grant of 1200 USD.

2024: The contract has been renewed for another year.

### Amulya Paritosh and Harshita Saraswat: Extension to The Component Library 

*Funding approved 31 October 2023.*

This project aims to complete the work started by Amulya Paritosh during the Google Summer of Code 2023. Amulya and his colleague Harshita Saraswat will do the remainder of the server-side work (authentication and authorization, launching the server on FreeCAD's server) and client-side work (using GitHub API key to upload files, inserting a component from an online library into FreeCAD). This project has an extension: Amulya will also work on dynamic properties for components in the online library. Amulya Paritosh and Harshita Saraswat were awarded a grant of 2500 USD each for the completion of the original project. Amulya was also awarded a 1000 USD grant for the extension project.

### Kurt Kremitzki (@kkremitzki): Improved Infrastructure Performance and Maintenance

*Funding approved 17 November 2023.*

Kurt will transition all existing services to a declarative format using Ansible, then translate that configuration into a set of Dockerfiles and Docker Compose configuration. He will also create a GitHub repository to centralize the management and automation of the infrastructure. Kurt was awarded a grant of 8000 USD.

## Past Issued Grants

You can find the list of past issued grants in the [Grant Archive](../programs/grant-program-archive).

Commit message:

Move Fransisc's project to archive, add Ajinkya's project

_programs/FPADF_Announcement.md, after:

---
title: "The FreeCAD Grant Program"
description:
    "Develop new features in FreeCAD and get paid by the community"
layout: default
mermaid: true
---

# {{page.title}}

The FreeCAD Grant Program aims to foster rapid development of FreeCAD and its ecosystem by giving grants to developers and non-programming contributors to work on specific projects. Their work is funded by the community, grants are issued by the FreeCAD Project Association that collects donations. The FPA reserved 50,000 EUR for the program in 2024, and plans to increase that funding in 2025.

For details on program rules, please refer to the [complete rulebook](/handbook/process/grant-program-rules).

The program was introduced in 2024 as a successor to the FPA Development Fund launched in August 2022.

## 2025 Program Timeline

Grants are evaulated and issued quarterly, with one fourth of the total budgeted funding available during each grant period, on the following schedule:

* Q1: March 1 submission deadline, March 15 committee meeting, voting complete by March 31
* Q2: June 1 submission deadline, June 21 committee meeting, voting complete by June 30
* Q3: Sept 1 submission deadline, Sept 20 committee meeting, voting complete by Sept 30
* Q4: Nov 15 submission deadline, Dec 7 committee meeting, voting complete by Dec 19  

Grants received after the Nov. 15 deadline will not be considered for the 2025 grant year, but will be held until the 2026 program is announced.

## Potential Projects

The FPA accepts applications to improve both FreeCAD and its ecosystem.

For FreeCAD-related projects an overall preference is given to projects that address major issues that are covered by the [general roadmap](https://freecad.github.io/DevelopersHandbook/roadmap/). We accept and welcome non-roadmap submissions as well.

We also accept "time commitment" grant applications where the contributor would work for a certain amount of time on any tasks related to a particular effort, such as refactoring code. Please refer to the [Fixed Goal vs Time Commitment](https://fpa.freecad.org/handbook/process/grant-program-rules.html#fixed-goal-vs-time-commitment) section of the rulebook.

Ecosystem includes (but is not limited to) FreeCAD infrastructure, as well as projects that are hard dependencies for FreeCAD, such as OCCT and Coin3D libraries. For ecosystem projects, we expect contributors to be in agreement with respective projects on goals and scope of work, as well as on contribution process prior to submitting the grant application.

## Qualifying for The Program

Both individuals and groups of individuals can qualify as grant acceptees. Applicants of all ethnicities, nationalities, sexes, and genders are welcome to apply for participation at the program, however some EU legislation restrictions might apply. Each applicant is expected to be old enough to perform work legally in the country of their residence and sign a contract with the FPA on behalf of themselves.

The program is geared towards individual contributors. However, the FPA grant committee will accept grant applications from a group of contributors as long as the group is either an incorporated company or a group of individuals represented by a single person. Each member of the group needs to qualify for participation.

## Application Requirements

We expect each applicant to have a great understanding of the scope of the proposed work. They should demonstrate the ability to plan their work ahead and deliver results in a timely manner without active mentorship. For details, please refer to the [Passing Criteria](https://fpa.freecad.org/handbook/process/grant-program-rules.html#passing-criteria) section of the rulebook.

## How to Submit a Grant Application

Grant applications are managed in a [public GitHub repository](https://github.com/FreeCAD/FPA-grant-proposals) in the FreeCAD project. To submit a grant application, start creating an issue and choose the application template in the form, then fill all the fields.

## FAQ

### Do I have to be a CAD development superstar to qualify?

Not necessarily. Some of the successful grants have been issued to developers who don’t have a ton of experience developing CAD software. However, they have great problem-solving skills and demonstrated understanding of the underlying math. Grants are also possible for non-programming contributors.

### I’m a student. Should I apply for GSoC or for the grant program?

This largely depends on how comfortable you feel around the FreeCAD code base. For GSoC, we provide some assistance via mentors. For the grant program, we expect contributors to be self-sufficient, all code goes through the same PR review process.

### Is there a “pencils down” deadline for the grant work like at GSoC?

No, we issue grants for projects that wildly vary in scope and complexity. Some projects would be a 1 month effort. Others could last half a year or more.

<!-- ### Do you have examples of really good grant proposals?

Yes. -->

### I missed the queue for the annual program. Now what?

You can apply for an individual grant. The same rules apply: make a great case for your project idea, demonstrate that you are capable of delivering proposed results, submit pull requests and progress updates, get paid for each stage, be a hero to all of us.

### Who reviews applications?

The grant review committee looks at technical aspects of each grant application. Current members: Chris Hennes (@chennes, overall maintainer, committee chair), Yorik van Havre (@yorik, Arch and Draft maintainer), @FreeCutter, @shaise, and @drmacro. Anyone who is interested in joining the grant review committee should reach out to Chris Hennes (chennes@freecad.org, @chennes on Discord, @chris_hennes on Telegram, and @chennes on the FreeCAD Forums).

The FPA general assembly then takes the technical review into consideration and looks at non-technical aspects of the proposal. The general assembly is more diverse, its members are both FreeCAD contributors, educators, and representatives of nonprofits and businesses. The full list of members is here.

### What happens if my situation changes and I can’t continue working on a project?

That depends on how much work you have managed to do. If you are in the middle of a project stage and you have already submitted mergeable or already merged pull requests, the FPA can issue a partial compensation for that stage and terminate the contract. 

Alternatively, you can request a partial compensation and a pause to handle your situation. We do not request you to share your life details with us, but we expect you to warn us in a timely manner.

## Ongoing projects funded by the FPA

### Ajinkya Dahale (@jnxd): Refactoring Sketcher, Part 2

*Funding approved 30 January 2025.*

Ajinkya Dahale will continue refactoring Sketcher. The main deliverables are the same as the first time: more methods simplification, testing, and documentation. This will not direct affect features or usability, but it will help other developers contribute to the program.

On top of that, Ajinkya plans to spend more time merging his previous changes into the main development branch (he was holding those off due to v1.0 feature freeze), splitting 10K LOC long classes into smaller, more manageable ones, and helping others review pull requests.

He was awarded a grant of EUR 4000 for the entire project.

### Kacper Donat (@kadet1090): Unified Transparent Previews

*Funding approved 28 November 2024.*

Kacper will work on a new feature preview system that can be used in Part and Part Design. Whenever you need to apply Pad or Loft or any other command, you will get a transparent preview of what you are getting right in the viewport. This is the first part of a larger project intended to unify Part and Part Design. He was awarded a grant of EUR 1,500 for the project.

### Joe Sardos (@Obelisk): Modernize, revise FreeCAD Art Guidelines and Icons

*Funding approved 11 November 2024.*

Joe will write new FreeCAD Art Guidelines along with providing replacement icons to follow the new guidelines. The current art guidelines are well thought-out and provide for reproducible style, however fall short of following current design trends for visual communication and rely heavily on bold and brash color combinations. The idea behind this prohect is to replace the guidelines, document them, work with the FreeCAD community across several platforms to find both style and form that have a general widespread acceptance, and replace them in their entirety. Total expected duration of the project is 3 months (or until complete). Joe was awarded USD 1,750 for the work.

### Dr. Rajeevlochana G. Chittawadigi, Dr. Ravi Kumar V., and Dr. Mohan Kumar S.: Content and Pedagogy Development for Teaching and Learning of Sketcher Workbench in FreeCAD Software

*Funding approved 9 November 2024.*

The team will develop a Sketcher addon for teaching how to use the workbench. Users will follow step-by-step instructions, and the wizard will highlight mistakes (if any) after each step. The project deliverables are spread across 9 months. The team was awarded a grant of USD 6,000 (to be paid to one representative in three steps).

### Pieter Hijma (@pieterhijma): Improve User Experience of VarSets
 
*Funding approved 9 November 2024.*

Peter will work on improving the user experience of VarSets. The work will include guiding the discussion on the more complicated topics, adding new features that are requested from users, and improving on various small issues. The work is scheduled to be done between January and April 2025. Pieter was awarded EUR 8,000 for the work.

### Turan Furkan Topak (@Reqrefusion): Recommendations and proposal for the improvement of documentation

*Funding approved 9 November 2024.*

Turan will improve the documentation wiki. He will apply fixes for some of the existing issues, improve the search feature, implement responsive design, opening direct user registration after making our Mediwiki instance vandal-safe, improve the editor, set up the ebooks generations for offline use, and improve various other things. Reqrefusion was awarded USD 3,000 for the work.

### FlachyJoe: bugfixes

*Funding approved 11 October 2024.*

FlachyJoe received an honorary grant of $1000 for working on bug fixes in this development cycle. Most recently he fixed a ton of bugs in Part Design, specifically in the Helix code.

### Jackson Oursland (@oursland): CI Hosting Research Proposal

*Funding approved 4 October 2024.*

Jackson will research various options for FreeCAD to get fast CI runners. Currently, we have free runners from GitHub, but they are relatively slow and concurrency-limited. So Jackson will look into three general options: paid runners on GitHub, self-hosted runners in the cloud (AWS, Azure, GCS, maybe others), and self-hosted runners on premise. Jackson was awarded $500 for the research.

### Pieter Hijma (@pieterhijma): Research Variant Parts

*Funding approved 9 September 2024.*

Pieter Hijma will be working on research for variant parts. A number of FreeCAD features require inserting copy-on-change links, such as referencing external geometry in a body for which SubShapeBinders are used in Part Design. The architecture behind the current implementation involves hidden parts and temporary files and is fragile. Pieter will begin the project by elaborating on the current state of affairs in the forum for developers, then propose patches targeting several aspects of the current implementation. He was awarded a grant of EUR 8,000 for the entire project.

### Chris Jones (@ipatch): Update homebrew-freecad tap with a freecad formula that uses Python v3.12 and Qt v6

*Funding approved 27 August 2024.*

Chris will continue his work on homebrew builds of FreeCAD. This time, he will update the homebrew-freecad tap to link against Python v3.12 and Qt v6 when creating the build. The project is expected to take a few weeks to complete. Chris was awarded a grant of USD $2,000 for the project.

### Aleksandr Prokudin (@prokoudine): Blog Maintenance

*Funding approved 2 July 2024.*

Aleksandr will post weekly recaps of FreeCAD development and write 2 to 4 additional news posts a month. The contract is for 1 year, with monthly payouts of EUR 500.

### Pieter Hijma (@pieterhijma): Improve C++ API Documentation

*Funding approved 2 July 2024.*

Pieter will refine a documentation standard in collaboration with the community and Anurag Singh (the other API documentation grantee) and apply the standard to files in the App namespace. The project is expected to last 6 months. Pieter was awarded EUR 8,000 for the entire project.

### Anurag Singh (@drLite35): Improve the FreeCAD API documentation

*Funding approved 24 June 2024.*

Anurag will reorganize the existing documentation, enhance docstrings to ensure uniformity and thoroughness, enhance the documentation's visual appeal and usability, automate documentation's generation, and write a contributor guide with instructions for effective documentation. The project is expected to last approx. 5 months. Anurag was awarded USD 4,000 for the entire project.

### Andrianos Karampilis: User manual update

*Funding approved 9 June 2024.*

Andrianos is updating the user manual in the wiki. The goal is to update all 23 chapters of the manual to bring it up to speed with the current state of FreeCAD and explore the possibility of releasing EPUB and PDF versions of the manual. The compensation for this project is USD 2,500.

### Mario Passaglia (@marioalexis84): Bugfixing and electromagnetic system simulations using CalculiX

*Funding approved 11 February 2024.*

Mario will be working for 7 months to provide solutions for electromagnetic problems leveraging the CalculiX solver. He will also fix bugs in the FEM workbench. Mario was awarded a grant of USD 4,000.

### Max Wilfinger (@maxwxyz): Bugs triaging

*Funding approved 10 February 2024.*

Max will triage bug reports. The contract is for 1 year, with monthly payouts of USD 500.

### Adrian Insauuralde (@adrianinsaval): Packaging

*Funding approved 13 July 2023.*

Adrian proposed to work on release packaging, by fixing the conda builds and the process to generate packages for the different platforms, and documenting the process in the developers handbook. Adrian was awarded a grant of 1200 USD.

2024: The contract has been renewed for another year.

### Amulya Paritosh and Harshita Saraswat: Extension to The Component Library

*Funding approved 31 October 2023.*

This project aims to complete the work started by Amulya Paritosh during the Google Summer of Code 2023. Amulya and his colleague Harshita Saraswat will do the remainder of the server-side work (authentication and authorization, launching the server on FreeCAD's server) and client-side work (using GitHub API key to upload files, inserting a component from an online library into FreeCAD). This project has an extension: Amulya will also work on dynamic properties for components in the online library. Amulya Paritosh and Harshita Saraswat were awarded a grant of 2500 USD each for the completion of the original project. Amulya was also awarded a 1000 USD grant for the extension project.

### Kurt Kremitzki (@kkremitzki): Improved Infrastructure Performance and Maintenance

*Funding approved 17 November 2023.*

Kurt will transition all existing services to a declarative format using Ansible, then translate that configuration into a set of Dockerfiles and Docker Compose configuration. He will also create a GitHub repository to centralize the management and automation of the infrastructure. Kurt was awarded a grant of 8000 USD.

## Past Issued Grants

You can find the list of past issued grants in the [Grant Archive](../programs/grant-program-archive).
