_programs/grant-program-archive.md, before:

---
title: "The FreeCAD Grant Program Archive"
description:
    "Grants issued to FreeCAD contributors in the past"
layout: default
mermaid: true
---

# {{page.title}}

The following is a reverse-chronological-order list of past projects funded by the FreeCAD Project Association:

## 2024

### Bradley Mclean (@bgbsww): Toponaming issue mitigation

*Funding approved 2 July 2024.*

Bradley will continue to address bugs and missing code as discovered in TNP migration. He will also develop new code as required to address portions of subshapebinder and Sketcher that vary from both the code base at the time of the original TNP branch and from the current Linkstage3 branch. When no bugs are present, he will refactor code in Part and PartDesign based on discoveries during the toponaming project. Bradley was awarded a grant of USD 5,000.

### Bradley Mclean (@bgbsww): Toponaming issue mitigation

*Funding approved 7 April 2024.*

Bradley will complete the toponaming project code transfer. He was awarded a grant of USD $5,000 for the work.

### Bradley Mclean (@bgbsww): Toponaming issue mitigation

*Funding approved 22 January 2024.*

Bradley will be working for two months on integrating fixes for the toponaming issue from RealThunder's branch to upstream FreeCAD. He was awarded a grant of 4800 USD.

### Vincenzo Calligaro (@CalligaroV): Toponaming issue mitigation

*Funding approved 22 January 2024.*

Vincenzo will be working for two months on integrating fixes for the toponaming issue from RealThunder's branch to upstream FreeCAD. He was awarded a grant of 3400 EUR.

## 2023

### Ajinkya Dahale (@jnxd): Curve Geometry Improvements

*Funding approved 26 November 2023.*

Ajinkya will implement general tangency with B-splines and make it possible to preview B-splines when drawing them. He will also investigate the implementation of Bezier curves and improve support for joining curves. Ajinkya was awarded a grant of 5000 USD.

### Benjamin Bræstrup Sayoc (@bensay): Fix Issue #5903

*Funding approved 3 August 2023.*

Bensay is implementing the autofilling of text fields in SVG page templates in TechDraw workbench. He was awarded a grant of 500 USD.

### AgCaliva (@AgCaliva): Per-document Unit Selector

*Funding approved 3 August 2023.*

AgCaliva implemented a simple per-document unit selector in FreeCAD. He was awarded a grant of 600 USD.

### Alexandre Prokoudine (@prokoudine): New grant program

*Funding approved 19 July 2023.*

Alexandre is revamping the grant program for FreeCAD Project association to make it more attractive to new contributors. He was awarded an overall grant of 3500 USD — 1500 for initial research and 2000 for designing the new program.

## 2022

### Lei Zheng (@realthunder): Topological Naming Problem Mitigation

*Funding approved 15 November 2022.*

In recognition of the efforts he has put into FreeCAD, especially the very large time investment he has made in working with the FreeCAD Maintainers to integrate his work on the topological naming problem, Zheng is awarded a grant of 1000 USD.

### Ajinkya Dahale (@jnxd): Spline Handling in Sketcher

*Funding approved 26 September 2022.*

Ajinkya proposed numerous improvements to the spline handling in the sketcher workbench. He raised funds from many members to do this work and has largely completed stage one. The FPA contributed to the second stage which focused on functionality to create more interesting curves not possible by knot position and slope alone. In recognition of his significant contribution to FreeCAD, Dahale is awarded a grant of 1000 USD.

Commit message:

Update the list of ongling and past grant projects

_programs/grant-program-archive.md, after:

---
title: "The FreeCAD Grant Program Archive"
description:
    "Grants issued to FreeCAD contributors in the past"
layout: default
mermaid: true
---

# {{page.title}}

The following is a reverse-chronological-order list of past projects funded by the FreeCAD Project Association:

## 2024

### Oficine Robotica: teaser video for v1.0

*Funding approved 12 October 2024.*

Oficice Robotica received a grant of $500 for creating a teaser video to demonstrate new features in the upcoming v1.0 release. The video was part of the press release.

### Bradley Mclean (@bgbsww): Documented procedures and code for supporting debugging FreeCAD C++ and Python from CLion and VSCode

*Funding approved 18 September 2024.*

Brad will write documented procedures and/or code for supporting debugging FreeCAD C++ and Python from CLion and VSCode. The project is expected to take approximately 2 weeks. Brad was awarded a grant of USD $1,500 for the project.

### Bradley Mclean (@bgbsww): Toponaming issue mitigation

*Funding approved 2 July 2024.*

Bradley will continue to address bugs and missing code as discovered in TNP migration. He will also develop new code as required to address portions of subshapebinder and Sketcher that vary from both the code base at the time of the original TNP branch and from the current Linkstage3 branch. When no bugs are present, he will refactor code in Part and PartDesign based on discoveries during the toponaming project. Bradley was awarded a grant of USD 5,000.

### Ajinkya Dahale (@jnxd): Refactoring Sketcher

*Funding approved 3 June 2024.*

Ajinkya Dahale will be making Sketcher more manageable to maintain and extend. His project has three deliverables:

- Simplifying methods: rewriting gigantic methods in Sketcher so that geometry special cases would be ideally moved to helper methods for reuse or at least divided into pieces for each case, making an easier reading.
- Tests: this will be done before major refactoring Sketcher to avoid regressions.
- Documentation: complete documentation of methods and a document listing best practices to follow when performing such refactoring elsewhere.

He was awarded a grant of USD $5,000.

### Bradley Mclean (@bgbsww): Toponaming issue mitigation

*Funding approved 7 April 2024.*

Bradley will complete the toponaming project code transfer. He was awarded a grant of USD $5,000 for the work.

### Bradley Mclean (@bgbsww): Toponaming issue mitigation

*Funding approved 22 January 2024.*

Bradley will be working for two months on integrating fixes for the toponaming issue from RealThunder's branch to upstream FreeCAD. He was awarded a grant of 4800 USD.

### Vincenzo Calligaro (@CalligaroV): Toponaming issue mitigation

*Funding approved 22 January 2024.*

Vincenzo will be working for two months on integrating fixes for the toponaming issue from RealThunder's branch to upstream FreeCAD. He was awarded a grant of 3400 EUR.

## 2023

### Ajinkya Dahale (@jnxd): Curve Geometry Improvements

*Funding approved 26 November 2023.*

Ajinkya will implement general tangency with B-splines and make it possible to preview B-splines when drawing them. He will also investigate the implementation of Bezier curves and improve support for joining curves. Ajinkya was awarded a grant of 5000 USD.

### Chris Jones (@ipatch): Improvements to Homebrew FreeCAD Setup

*Funding approved 12 September 2023.*

Chris will implement autoconnection of homebrew-freecad to self-hosted runners, create GitHub actions to perform autochecks for changed dependencies and then rebuild them, and add regular bundle builds. He will also look into making homebrew-freedesk compatible with linuxbrew. Chris was awarded a grant of 1000 USD.

### Benjamin Bræstrup Sayoc (@bensay): Fix Issue #5903

*Funding approved 3 August 2023.*

Bensay is implementing the autofilling of text fields in SVG page templates in TechDraw workbench. He was awarded a grant of 500 USD.

### AgCaliva (@AgCaliva): Per-document Unit Selector

*Funding approved 3 August 2023.*

AgCaliva implemented a simple per-document unit selector in FreeCAD. He was awarded a grant of 600 USD.

### Alexandre Prokoudine (@prokoudine): New grant program

*Funding approved 19 July 2023.*

Alexandre is revamping the grant program for FreeCAD Project association to make it more attractive to new contributors. He was awarded an overall grant of 3500 USD — 1500 for initial research and 2000 for designing the new program.

## 2022

### Lei Zheng (@realthunder): Topological Naming Problem Mitigation

*Funding approved 15 November 2022.*

In recognition of the efforts he has put into FreeCAD, especially the very large time investment he has made in working with the FreeCAD Maintainers to integrate his work on the topological naming problem, Zheng is awarded a grant of 1000 USD.

### Ajinkya Dahale (@jnxd): Spline Handling in Sketcher

*Funding approved 26 September 2022.*

Ajinkya proposed numerous improvements to the spline handling in the sketcher workbench. He raised funds from many members to do this work and has largely completed stage one. The FPA contributed to the second stage which focused on functionality to create more interesting curves not possible by knot position and slope alone. In recognition of his significant contribution to FreeCAD, Dahale is awarded a grant of 1000 USD.
