_programs/pre-approved-grant.md, before:

## Pre-approved Grant
This document has been created to explain the operation of a program that is between a bounty and a grant program. The aim is to create a partially exceptional situation that will speed up the grant process and make it more noteworthy. This type of grant is a different type of FPA-Designed Grants.

#### Determining the prioritized issue in granting

Any FPA member who believes that there is significant community demand for an issue included in FreeCAD's bug tracker will vote at the FPA General Assembly to prioritize this issue for the grant. Voting is done in the same way as grant voting. However, the member who opened the vote cannot vote for the vote, and even if he does, his vote will be counted as undecided. Members vote taking into account the demands of the community and the priorities of the FPA.

If the vote is positive, a text is written where the relevant issue is located, stating that this issue has been approved by the FPA and that grant offers to be made to close this issue will be accepted directly without a second vote, unless there is an exceptional situation. And the "prioritized for grant" tag is added to the relevant issue.

If the vote is negative, this will not be announced in any way. The relevant issue cannot be voted on again for a month for "prioritized for grant". There is no limit to proposing the same issue, provided that this period is respected.

#### Grant making process
Anyone who thinks that they can solve the relevant issue applies for a grant by proving that they have this competence. The application process is the same as for the "Fixed-Goal Grant". Likewise, it goes through the review of the Technical committee. Proposal, It is deemed to be accepted 1 week after the technical committee submits the relevant report to the FPA.

The offer can be made for a work that has not been started or in progress, but cannot be made for a work that has been completed.

The relevant application may contain more than one "prioritized for grant" issue, in which case the offer is considered a Pre-approved Grant, but if extra things are promised other than solving the relevant issue, this status is lost. If these extras are defined as side effects and are considered advantages of the method to be applied, the Pre-approved Grant status of the proposal is preserved.

#### Exceptions
This type of grant has exceptional features. However, this exception can be lost in various ways.

Any member can object to the compensation amount included in the grant offer at any time. In this case, the FPA general assembly, the Technical committee and the person making the grant offer seek an agreement on the compensation amount. Finally, these proposals are presented to the FPA general assembly for a vote. This applies only to the compensation amount, not to the entire grant.

If the technical committee has expressed any negative opinion, any member can show this and open a vote in the general assembly to vote the proposal like any other grant proposal. If voting is opened, the proposal is evaluated in the same way as the grant procedures.

The Technical Committee Chair may object under any other circumstances and circumstances. As a result of the objection, the proposal follows standard grant procedure.

Objections cannot be made after 1 week after the technical committee submits its report, which is assumed to have accepted the grant.

Commit message:

Exception for cases 500 and below

_programs/pre-approved-grant.md, after:

## Pre-approved Grant
This document has been created to explain the operation of a program that is between a bounty and a grant program. The aim is to create a partially exceptional situation that will speed up the grant process and make it more noteworthy. This type of grant is a different type of FPA-Designed Grants.

#### Determining the prioritized issue in granting

Any FPA member who believes that there is significant community demand for an issue included in FreeCAD's bug tracker will vote at the FPA General Assembly to prioritize this issue for the grant. Voting is done in the same way as grant voting. However, the member who opened the vote cannot vote for the vote, and even if he does, his vote will be counted as undecided. Members vote taking into account the demands of the community and the priorities of the FPA.

If the vote is positive, a text is written where the relevant issue is located, stating that this issue has been approved by the FPA and that grant offers to be made to close this issue will be accepted directly without a second vote, unless there is an exceptional situation. And the "prioritized for grant" tag is added to the relevant issue.

If the vote is negative, this will not be announced in any way. The relevant issue cannot be voted on again for a month for "prioritized for grant". There is no limit to proposing the same issue, provided that this period is respected.

#### Grant making process
Anyone who thinks that they can solve the relevant issue applies for a grant by proving that they have this competence. The application process is the same as for the "Fixed-Goal Grant". Likewise, it goes through the review of the Technical committee. Proposal, It is deemed to be accepted 1 week after the technical committee submits the relevant report to the FPA.

For offers worth 500 (five hundred) euros and below, a PR review, that is, a review by the maintainer of the relevant section, is sufficient. Once the relevant PR is merged, the grant offer is deemed accepted and payment is made. If the Technical Committee Chair deems it necessary, he may request an investigation from the Technical Committee for these situations.

The offer can be made for a work that has not been started or in progress, but cannot be made for a work that has been completed.

The relevant application may contain more than one "prioritized for grant" issue, in which case the offer is considered a Pre-approved Grant, but if extra things are promised other than solving the relevant issue, this status is lost. If these extras are defined as side effects and are considered advantages of the method to be applied, the Pre-approved Grant status of the proposal is preserved.

#### Exceptions
This type of grant has exceptional features. However, this exception can be lost in various ways.

Any member can object to the compensation amount included in the grant offer at any time. In this case, the FPA general assembly, the Technical committee and the person making the grant offer seek an agreement on the compensation amount. Finally, these proposals are presented to the FPA general assembly for a vote. This applies only to the compensation amount, not to the entire grant.

If the technical committee has expressed any negative opinion, any member can show this and open a vote in the general assembly to vote the proposal like any other grant proposal. If voting is opened, the proposal is evaluated in the same way as the grant procedures.

The Technical Committee Chair may object under any other circumstances and circumstances. As a result of the objection, the proposal follows standard grant procedure.

Objections cannot be made after 1 week after the technical committee submits its report, which is assumed to have accepted the grant.
