reports/2022.md, before:

## <img src="../images/freecad.svg" style="zoom:50%;" /> FreeCAD project association - 2022 accounting report

Total assets before 2022: **USD 6349.05**

Total liabilities before 2022: **EUR 455.27**

| Nr  | Date       | Type | Description                                                                                                                    | Currency | Info     | In     | Out     |
| --- | ---------- | ---- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | -------- | -------- | ------ | ------- |
| 1   | 2022.05.05 | Out  | [Payment to Kurt for DigitalOcean hosting](https://github.com/FreeCAD/FPA/issues/2)                                            | USD      |          |        | 891.45  |
| 2   | 2022.05.10 | Info | Cash on bountysource                                                                                                           | USD      | 5627.10  |        |         |
| 3   | 2022.05.12 | In   | Donation on BNP bank account                                                                                                   | EUR      |          | 100.00 |         |
| 4   | 2022.05.12 | Info | Cash on BNP bank account                                                                                                       | EUR      | 100.00   |        |         |
| 5   | 2022.06.10 | In   | Donation from Packt Publishing Ltd                                                                                             | EUR      |          | 660.54 |         |
| 6   | 2022.05.12 | Info | Cash on BNP bank account                                                                                                       | EUR      | 767.86   |        |         |
| 7   | 2022.06.23 | Info | Paid by Yorik for trademark registration                                                                                       | EUR      | 285.00   |        |         |
| 8   | 2022.07.07 | Info | **June report**: OpenCollective: 1022.66 USD; BountySource: 5527.10 USD; Bank account: 2092.87 EUR; PayPal 1974,04 EUR         | USD      | 10616.61 |        |         |
| 9   | 2022.06.28 | Out  | [Payment to Yorik for remaining EUR 455.27 paid for FPA setup](https://github.com/FreeCAD/FPA/issues/14)                       | USD      |          |        | 530.91  |
| 10  | 2022.08.01 | Info | **July report**: OpenCollective: 1090.04 USD; BountySource: 5096.10 USD; Bank account: 8250.42 EUR; PayPal: 1557.41 USD        | USD      | 16178.70 |        |         |
| 11  | 2022.09.01 | Info | **August report**: OpenCollective: 1137.19 USD; BountySource: 5096.10 USD; Bank account: 16942.20 EUR; PayPal: 510.20 USD      | USD      | 23717.71 |        |         |
| 12  | 2022.09.19 | Info | **Recurring donations in August**: Github: 84.00 USD; OpenCollective: 52.67 USD; Paypal: 101.30 USD                            | USD      | 237.97   |        |         |
| 13  | 2022.09.29 | Out  | [Payment of USD 1000 grant to jnxd](https://github.com/FreeCAD/FPA/issues/19)                                                  | EUR      |          |        | 1042.68 |
| 14  | 2022.10.04 | Info | **September report**: OpenCollective: 2185.18 USD; BountySource: 5096.10 USD; Bank account: 24481.78 EUR; PayPal: 1411.71 USD; | USD      | 32703.47 |        |         |
| 15  | 2022.10.04 | Info | **Recurring donations in September**: Github: 84.00 USD; OpenCollective: 52.67 USD; Paypal: 287.50 USD                         | USD      | 424.17   |        |         |
| 16  | 2022.10.05 | Out  | [Payment to Yorik for trademark register](https://github.com/FreeCAD/FPA/issues/20)                                            | EUR      |          |        | 244.00  |
| 13  | 2022.10.27 | Out  | [Payment of additional USD 500 grant to jnxd](https://github.com/FreeCAD/FPA/issues/23)                                        | EUR      |          |        | 509.68  |
| 14  | 2022.11.07 | Info | **October report**: OpenCollective: 2163.81 USD; BountySource: 5096.10 USD; Bank account: 32619.11 EUR; PayPal: 2.394,18 USD;  | USD      | 42151.86 |        |         |
| 15  | 2022.11.07 | Info | **Recurring donations in September**: Github: 102.00 USD; OpenCollective: 97.75 USD; Paypal: 291.40 USD                        | USD      | 491.15   |        |         |

**Notes**: Money conversions in monthly reports are always based on the day's exchange rate by xe.com. All payments made by the FPA must always be identified by a link describing where/how the money was used

Commit message:

Updated report with codeberg donation

reports/2022.md, after:

## <img src="../images/freecad.svg" style="zoom:50%;" /> FreeCAD project association - 2022 accounting report

Total assets before 2022: **USD 6349.05**

Total liabilities before 2022: **EUR 455.27**

| Nr  | Date       | Type | Description                                                                                                                    | Currency | Info     | In     | Out     |
| --- | ---------- | ---- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | -------- | -------- | ------ | ------- |
| 1   | 2022.05.05 | Out  | [Payment to Kurt for DigitalOcean hosting](https://github.com/FreeCAD/FPA/issues/2)                                            | USD      |          |        | 891.45  |
| 2   | 2022.05.10 | Info | Cash on bountysource                                                                                                           | USD      | 5627.10  |        |         |
| 3   | 2022.05.12 | In   | Donation on BNP bank account                                                                                                   | EUR      |          | 100.00 |         |
| 4   | 2022.05.12 | Info | Cash on BNP bank account                                                                                                       | EUR      | 100.00   |        |         |
| 5   | 2022.06.10 | In   | Donation from Packt Publishing Ltd                                                                                             | EUR      |          | 660.54 |         |
| 6   | 2022.05.12 | Info | Cash on BNP bank account                                                                                                       | EUR      | 767.86   |        |         |
| 7   | 2022.06.23 | Info | Paid by Yorik for trademark registration                                                                                       | EUR      | 285.00   |        |         |
| 8   | 2022.07.07 | Info | **June report**: OpenCollective: 1022.66 USD; BountySource: 5527.10 USD; Bank account: 2092.87 EUR; PayPal 1974,04 EUR         | USD      | 10616.61 |        |         |
| 9   | 2022.06.28 | Out  | [Payment to Yorik for remaining EUR 455.27 paid for FPA setup](https://github.com/FreeCAD/FPA/issues/14)                       | USD      |          |        | 530.91  |
| 10  | 2022.08.01 | Info | **July report**: OpenCollective: 1090.04 USD; BountySource: 5096.10 USD; Bank account: 8250.42 EUR; PayPal: 1557.41 USD        | USD      | 16178.70 |        |         |
| 11  | 2022.09.01 | Info | **August report**: OpenCollective: 1137.19 USD; BountySource: 5096.10 USD; Bank account: 16942.20 EUR; PayPal: 510.20 USD      | USD      | 23717.71 |        |         |
| 12  | 2022.09.19 | Info | **Recurring donations in August**: Github: 84.00 USD; OpenCollective: 52.67 USD; Paypal: 101.30 USD                            | USD      | 237.97   |        |         |
| 13  | 2022.09.29 | Out  | [Payment of USD 1000 grant to jnxd](https://github.com/FreeCAD/FPA/issues/19)                                                  | EUR      |          |        | 1042.68 |
| 14  | 2022.10.04 | Info | **September report**: OpenCollective: 2185.18 USD; BountySource: 5096.10 USD; Bank account: 24481.78 EUR; PayPal: 1411.71 USD; | USD      | 32703.47 |        |         |
| 15  | 2022.10.04 | Info | **Recurring donations in September**: Github: 84.00 USD; OpenCollective: 52.67 USD; Paypal: 287.50 USD                         | USD      | 424.17   |        |         |
| 16  | 2022.10.05 | Out  | [Payment to Yorik for trademark register](https://github.com/FreeCAD/FPA/issues/20)                                            | EUR      |          |        | 244.00  |
| 13  | 2022.10.27 | Out  | [Payment of additional USD 500 grant to jnxd](https://github.com/FreeCAD/FPA/issues/23)                                        | EUR      |          |        | 509.68  |
| 14  | 2022.11.07 | Info | **October report**: OpenCollective: 2163.81 USD; BountySource: 5096.10 USD; Bank account: 32619.11 EUR; PayPal: 2.394,18 USD;  | USD      | 42151.86 |        |         |
| 15  | 2022.11.07 | Info | **Recurring donations in September**: Github: 102.00 USD; OpenCollective: 97.75 USD; Paypal: 291.40 USD                        | USD      | 491.15   |        |         |
| 16  | 2022.11.16 | Info | Initiated a recurring payment of 10 USD monthly to codeberg                                                                    | USD      | 10.00    |        |         |

**Notes**: Money conversions in monthly reports are always based on the day's exchange rate by xe.com. All payments made by the FPA must always be identified by a link describing where/how the money was used
