## Summary of Activities - OCCT Liaison - June 2025

### Update the project

The [OCCT Liaison
project](https://github.com/orgs/FreeCAD/projects/32/views/1?layout=table) has
received continuous updates on issues.  Last month I reported that I'm running
behind and that is again the case.  However, I'm working on a system to improve
on this as can be seen below.

### Discussion on OCCT bug reporting and versions

Last month I was waiting for progress from Adrian.  We agreed to talk about
this, but this hasn't happened yet.  In July I will pick up on this.

### Contact with Dmitrii/OCCT regarding Data Exchange

This month I contacted Dmitrii thanking him for his reaction and asking if we
could discuss the technical details of DE to ensure that the FPA understand
what is needed from the FreeCAD side and can direct resources to this iniative.
Unfortunately, I haven't had a reaction yet.  I will send him a friendly
reminder.

### DRAW Test Harness

Last month I tried to create a test for
[#11654](https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/issues/11654) but I failed to
complete it.  This month I've continued with this model with the goal to find a
way to get help from the community to process the OCCT Liaison project board
faster.

The model from this particular issue is very interesting because while trying
to get a minimized version, there are various different issues that arise.  I'm
planning on creating a video that explains how to minimize models to use them
as a basis for GitHub issues.

Although I'm still thinking this over, I'm planning on defining stages for
OCCT-related issues.  The stages I'm now contemplating are:

01 - needs triage
02 - needs a minimized model
03 - needs a DRAW test
04 - needs to be submitted

The triage phase is already quite challenging.  With help of Adrian, we can
potentially create a weekly build with the latest OCCT version and with
debugging symbols on.  With this and some educational material, we can allow
community members to try to understand whether an issue is OCCT related or
FreeCAD related.  In July, I will discuss this with Adrian.

The second phase of minimizing a model is also important because it can give us
and the OCCT developers a hint on where the problems arise.  Next month I will
work on the above issue and start creating a video to explain this.

The idea is that these phases are recorded in the project board and can show
the community what is needed.

### Part Design / Part interaction

I was supposed to put this on an agenda of the developer meeting.  Now, I think
it may be better to ping Kacper about it personally.
