handbook/process/bookkeeping/FPADFGrants.md, before:

# Process for FPADF Grants

The FPA administers a Development Fund which provides grants to contributors.  This
fund was established by a vote 2022-11-15.  These grants are valued in USD.

The FPA also provides grants to defray travel costs to events such as FOSDEM.  These grants are
generally valued in USD.

## Documenting a Grant award
If there is to be a gap between awarding of the Grant and the actual payment, then generally accepted
accounting practices would suggest that the award be recorded as a liability and then charged to the 
FPADF account when money is actually paid out.  As we are not bookkeepers, we will just record the
payout to a "Valeurs disponsible" account and the FPADF expense account.

### Grant proposals and approvals 
A proposal must be provided for all grants. Grant awards are subject to a positive vote by the FPA.

### Bookkeeping for grant payouts
Create a transaction charging the grant amount to the appropriate account, offset against the
account providing the funds.  Any fees involved should also be added to the transaction.

Normally a Github issue is created for each payment.

Commit message:

[bookkeeping]Grants only to individuals

handbook/process/bookkeeping/FPADFGrants.md, after:

# Process for FPADF Grants

The FPA administers a Development Fund which provides grants to contributors.  This
fund was established by a vote 2022-11-15.  These grants are valued in USD.

The FPA also provides grants to defray travel costs to events such as FOSDEM.  These grants are
generally valued in USD. These Grants are not considered to be FPADF grants and are accounted
for separately.

The FPA may award grants for other purposes, such as education.  These grants are not part of the FPADF
program

## Who can receive a grant?
Grant are only issued to individuals.  In the event multiple people are involved in an initiative, 
one of them must act as the "prime contractor".  The prime contractor is responsible for dividing
grant money among the participants.  The FPA will not involve itself in any disputes between the
participants.

## Documenting a Grant award
If there is to be a gap between awarding of the Grant and the actual payment, then generally accepted
accounting practices would suggest that the award be recorded as a liability and then charged to the 
FPADF account when money is actually paid out.  As we are not bookkeepers, we will just record the
payout to a "Valeurs disponsible" account and the FPADF expense account.

### Grant proposals and approvals 
A proposal must be provided for all grants. Grant awards are subject to a positive vote by the FPA.

### Bookkeeping for grant payouts
Create a transaction charging the grant amount to the appropriate account, offset against the
account providing the funds.  Any fees involved should also be added to the transaction.

Normally a Github issue is created for each payment.
