== MediaWiki Status and Improvements Report ==

=== System Assessment and Maintenance Work ===
Upon gaining access to the MediaWiki installation, I found the system to be in a neglected state. The database size was approximately '''25 GB''', posing a serious risk of data corruption and performance issues.

Actions taken:
* Maintenance and cleanup tasks were executed.
* Database size was reduced to approximately '''3 GB'''.
* The system is now more stable, easier to back up, and sustainable.

As a result, the risk of critical failure has been significantly reduced, and data integrity is now reliably maintained.

----

=== Mobile Interface Support ===
To improve mobile user experience, the following components were installed and configured:

* '''[https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Extension:MobileFrontend Extension:MobileFrontend]''' extension.
* '''[https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Skin:MinervaNeue Skin:MinervaNeue]''' set as the default mobile skin.

As a result:
* Users on mobile devices now experience an interface identical to Wikipedia’s mobile version.
* The layout is optimized for readability and touchscreen interaction.
* Contribution from mobile users is now more accessible and practical.

----

=== VisualEditor Integration ===
The '''[https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Extension:VisualEditor VisualEditor]''' extension was successfully integrated to provide a user-friendly WYSIWYG editing experience. Since MediaWiki 1.35+, Parsoid is embedded in core, eliminating the need for a separate Node.js service.

Key features:
* Users can edit pages without knowing wikitext (wikicode).
* Tables, headers, links, media, and references can be added or edited visually.
* Seamless switching between source editing and visual mode is supported.

VisualEditor significantly lowers the barrier to contribution for non-technical users and increases the accuracy and quality of page formatting.

----

=== Enhanced Search with ElasticSearch ===
The search system has been migrated to '''ElasticSearch 7.x''', the same search backend used by Wikipedia, enabling advanced full-text capabilities.

Improvements:
* Full-text search is now available across both titles and page content.
* Results are more relevant, and multilingual indexing is supported.
* Performance and precision are significantly improved over the default MediaWiki search.

Note: Due to licensing changes in ElasticSearch 8.x, a future migration to OpenSearch may be considered, though current functionality is stable and supported.

----

=== Anti-Vandalism Measures: ApprovedRevs ===
To ensure content quality and prevent vandalism, the '''[https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Extension:ApprovedRevs ApprovedRevs]''' extension was integrated. With this system, only approved revisions are displayed to the public.

Changes implemented:
* Edits from new users must be reviewed and approved by an editor before becoming visible.
* Trusted contributors can be granted the "editor" role after a proven track record.
* The site has been made openly editable through registration while maintaining protection against vandalism.

This provides a sustainable, controlled contribution model that balances openness with content reliability.

----

=== Gordion Knot Project ===
'''Gordion Knot''' is an independent system that regularly mirrors the wiki content to a GitHub repository.

* Wiki content remains accessible even if the primary site goes offline.
* The system has already been successfully used by another party.
* Development of a MediaWiki extension version is postponed due to currently low demand.

The project remains maintained and ready for continued use.

----

== Final Assessment ==
All major development and maintenance tasks outlined in the grant have been successfully completed. The MediaWiki platform is now more secure, stable, and contributor-friendly. These enhancements ensure both technical reliability and an improved user experience aligned with modern standards.

While the system is now largely operational, there are still minor refinements and fine-tuning tasks to be addressed. This is typical for evolving platforms and part of ongoing quality assurance.

Overall, the system has been placed on a sustainable footing, making it more accessible and maintainable for both users and administrators.
